Don Gato (Children's Song, typically played with guitar)

Oh, Señor Don Gato was a Cat.
On a high red roof, Don Gato sat.
He went there to read a letter (Meow! Meow! Meow!)
Where the reading light was better (Meow! Meow! Meow!)
'Twas a love note for Don Gato.

"I adore you!" wrote the lady cat,
Who was fluffy, white, and nice and fat.
There was not a sweeter kitty (Meow! Meow! Meow!)
In the country or the city (Meow! Meow! Meow!)
And she said she'd wed Don Gato.

Oh, Don Gato jumped so happily.
He fell off the roof and broke his knee,
Broke his ribs and all his whiskers (Meow! Meow! Meow!)
And his little solar plexus (Meow! Meow! Meow!)
"Ay carumba!" cried Don Gato.

Then the docters all came on the run,
Just to see if something could be done,
And they held a consultation (Meow! Meow! Meow!)
About how to save their patient (Meow! Meow! Meow!)
How to save Señor Don Gato?

But in spite of everything they tried,
Poor Señor Don Gato up and died,
And it wasn't very merry (Meow! Meow! Meow!)
Going to the cemetery (Meow! Meow! Meow!)
For the ending of Don Gato.

When the funeral passed the market square,
Such a smell of fish was in the air,
Though his burial was slated (Meow! Meow! Meow!)
He became reanimated (Meow! Meow! Meow!)
He came back to life, Don Gato!

Meaning: This is a children's song, which is able to introduce some more mature themes via a cat character. Cats are much more agile than humans, 
typically it's not a concern for a cat to be on a roof, but not so for humans. But romance/love/marriage (human concepts) is introduced to the cat, 
and the cat gets so excited it falls off the roof. The cat suffers terminal injuries doctors cannot fix. The cat then undergoes burial (also a human 
thing not usually done for cats). But the scent of fish in the air allows Don Gato to reanimate, taking literally the idea that cats have nine lives 
and can survive things humans could not.

So for the human child listener, the lessons are not to be reckless in climbing (humans are not cats) and that romance/love/marriage can be 
exciting/unsettling things. And of course if a human dies (even in an accident) they aren't coming back to this world.