Streets of Laredo (American Cowboy Ballad derived from traditional folk song The Unfortunate Rake)
As sung by Johnny Cash

As I walked out on the streets of Laredo,
As I walked out on Laredo one day,
I spied a young cowboy, all wrapped in white linen,
Wrapped in white linen, as cold as the plague.

"I can see by your outfit that you are a cowboy,"
These words he did say as I boldly walked by,
"Come sit down beside me and hear my sad story,
I'm shot in the breast and I know I must die.

It was once in the saddle, I used to go dashing,
Once in the saddle, I used to go gay,
First to the card-house, and then down to Rosie's [saloon],
But I'm shot in the breast and I'm dyin' today.

Get six jolly cowboys to carry my coffin,
Six damsel maidens to bear up my pall,
Throw bunches of roses all over my coffin
Roses to deaden the clods as they fall.

Then beat the drum slowly,
Play the fife lowly,
Play the dead march,
As you carry me along.
Take me to the green valley,
Lay the sod o'er me,
I'm a young cowboy, and I know I've done wrong.

Then go write a letter to my gray-haired mother,
And tell her the cowboy that she loved has gone,
But please, not one word of the man who had killed me,
Don't mention his name and his name will pass on."

When thus he had spoken, the hot sun was setting.
The streets of Laredo grew cold as the plague,
We took the young cowboy down to the green valley,
And there stands his marker we made to this day.

We beat the drum slowly,
Played the fife lowly,
Played the dead march,
As we carried him along,
Down in the green valley,
Laid the sod o'er him.
He was a young cowboy, 
And he said he'd done wrong.

Meaning:
The singer, another cowboy, sees a injured cowboy wrapped in a burial shroud (white linen). The dying cowboy is willing to tell his story to another cowboy.
The dying cowboy tells of his adventures in the saddle, the card-house, and the saloon. He was shot, but no detail is given of how he died. He gives details of how his 
burial ritual should proceed (coffin-bearers, pall-bearers, covering the coffin with roses as the dirt/sod buries the coffin, musical playing of a march with 
fife and drum). These instructions are followed, with the singer at the end telling of the burial in past tense.

The dying cowboy expresses the view that he has done wrong. This could be a reference to a mistake he made that led to the gunfight that caused his death.
Or possibly the cowbow is a sinner (like all humans), and has chosen to reflect upon his mistakes before he dies. There is also a Christian religious idea that original
sin is why humans have to die. Thus the death of the cowboy can metaphorically represent human reality that all people inevitably sin, and eventually inevitably die.

The dying cowboy requests a letter be written to his mother to inform her of his death, but doesn't want his killer's name mentioned. One possible explanation for not 
mentioning the killer's name is to not upset the mother. However, the phrasing "Don't mention his name and his name will pass on" indicates a greater desire to avoid 
mentioning the killer's name to allow the killer to pass anonymously into history.

Additionl verses (wikipedia):
"Then swing your rope slowly and rattle your spurs lowly,
And give a wild whoop as you carry me along;
And in the grave throw me and roll the sod o'er me.
For I'm a young cowboy and I know I've done wrong."

"Go bring me a cup, a cup of cold water.
To cool my parched lips", the cowboy then said.
Before I returned, his spirit had departed,
And gone to the round up – the cowboy was dead.