The Real Slim Shady (Eminem)

[Chorus]

I'm Slim Shady, yes I'm the real Shady.
All you other Slim Shadys are just imitating.
So won't the real Slim Shady please stand up?
Please stand up? Please stand up.
'Cause I'm Slim Shady, yes, I'm the real Shady.
All you other Slim Shadys are just imitating.
So won't the real Slim Shady please stand up?
Please stand up? Please stand up.

(Start Song)

[Intro]
May I have your attention, please?
May I have your attention, please?
Will the real Slim Shady please stand up?
I repeat: Will the real Slim Shady please stand up?
We're gonna have a problem here. [many in the audience remain standing]

Y'all act like you never seen a white person before.
Jaws all on the floor like Pam, like Tommy just burst in the door.
And started whoopin' her ass worse than before
they first were divorced, throwin' her over furniture (Agh!).
It's the return of the "Oh, wait, no way, you're kidding?""
"He didn't just say what I think he did, did he?"
And Dr. Dre said... Nothing you idiots, Dr. Dre's dead, he's locked in my basement
Feminist women love Eminem:
"Chickee-chickee Slim Shady, I'm sick of him...
Look at him, walkin' around, grabbin' his you-know-what
Flippin' the you-know-who," "Yeah, but he's so cute though".
Yeah, I probably got a couple of screws up in my head loose.
But no worse than what's goin' on in your parents' bedrooms.
Sometimes I just wanna get on TV and let loose,
But can't, but it's cool for Tom Green to hump a dead moose.
"My bum is on your lips, my bum is on your lips"
And if I'm lucky, you might just give it a little kiss.
And that's the message we deliver to little kids,
And expect them not to know what a woman's clitoris is.
Of course, they're gonna know what intercourse is,
By the time they hit fourth grade,
They've got the Discovery Channel, don't they?
We ain't nothin' but mammals.
Well, some of us cannibals who cut other people open like cantaloupes.
But if we can hump dead animals and antelopes,
Then there's no reason a man and another man can't elopse.
But if you feel like I feel, I got the antidote.
Women, wave your pantyhose, sing the chorus and it goes...

[Chorus]

Will Smith don't gotta cuss in his raps to sell records.
Well I do, so fuck him and fuck you too.
Think I give a damn about a Grammy?
Half of you critics can't even stomach me, let alone stand me.
"But Slim, what if you win? Wouldn't it be weird?"
Why? So you guys could just lie to get me here?
So you can sit me here next to Britney Spears?
Shit, Christina Aguilera better switch me chairs,
so I can sit next to Carson Daly and Fred Durst,
hear 'em argue over who she gave head to first.
Little bitch put me over on blast on MTV
"Yeah, he's cute, but I think he's married to Kim" (Hee-hee)
I should download her audio on MP3,
And show the whole world how you gave Eminem VD (Agh)
I'm sick of you little girl and boy groups, all you do is annoy me.
So I have been sent here to destroy you.
And there's a million of us just like me,
Who cuss like me, who just don't give a fuck like me,
Who dress like me, walk, talk, and act like me.
And just might be the next best thing, but not quite me.

[Chorus]

I'm like a head trip to listen to.
'Cause I'm only givin' you things you joke about with your friends inside your living room,
The only difference is I got the balls to say it in front of y'all,
And I don't gotta be false or sugarcoat it at all.
I just get on the mike and spit it,
And whether you like to admit it (er)
I just shit it better than 90% of you rappers out there.
Then you wonder, "How can kids eat up these albums like Valiums?"
It's funny, 'cause at the rate I'm goin', when I'm thirty,
I'll be the only person in the nursing home flirting,
Pinchin' nurse's asses when I'm jacking off with Jergens,
And I'm jerkin', but this whole bag of Viagra isn't workin'.
And ev'ry single person is a Slim Shady lurkin'.
He could be workin' at Burger King, spittin' on your onion rings.
Or in the parkin' lot, circling, screaming "I don't give a fuck!"
With his windows down and his system up.
So will the real Slim Shady please stand up
And put one of these fingers on each hand up?
And be proud to be out-of-your-mind and out-of-control,
And one more time, loud as you can, how does it go?

[Outro]
Ha-ha!
I guess there's a Slim Shady in all of us.
Fuck it, let's all stand up.

(End Song)

Meaning: Eminem is a white rapper, and used a lot of profanity (more stereotypical of black rappers of the period).
When he started, this made him a novelty, but eventually other white rappers learned they could get away with edgier content,
eventually making Eminem less of a novelty. This song has Eminem venting some anger at rappers he thinks are copying his style.
However, there's a deeper meaning for any kind of listener. Profanity has gotten more socially acceptable over time, and to
some extent Eminem can be considered to have driven a part of this phenomenon. At the end, everybody stands up, so Eminem thinks
it is acceptable for a non-rapper to use profanity. It's a bit of a delicate matter, since not everyone agrees, but in this
song the profanity is so ridiculous saying it is offensive is absurd. I think this song is a good example of the message that 
profanity isn't such a bad thing, as long it is used wisely/ethically. Eminem's listeners probably agree, but many others 
disagree (and they probably don't intentionally listen to Eminem).