Love Story (Taylor Swift)

Refrain:
And I said...
"Romeo, take me somewhere we can be alone.
I'll be waiting, all there's left to do is run.
You'll be the prince and I'll be the princess.
It's a love story! Baby just say 'Yes!'"

(Start Song)

We were both young when I saw you.
I close my eyes, and the flashback starts:
I'm standing there on a balcony in summer air.
See the lights, see the party, the ball gowns.
See you make your way thru the crowd, and say "Hello!".

Little did I know... that you were Romeo, you were throwin' pebbles,
And my daddy said, "Stay away from Juliet!"
And I was cryin' on the staircase beggin' you, "Please don't go!"

[Refrain]

So I sneak out to the garden to see you.
We keep quiet 'cause we're dead if they knew,
So close your eyes.
Escape this town for a little while. Oh, oh.

'Cause you were Romeo, I was a scarlet letter,
And my daddy said, "Stay away from Juliet!"
But you were everything to me, I was beggin' you, "Please don't go!"

[Refrain]

"Romeo, save me, they're tryin' to tell me how to feel.
This love is difficult, but it's a real.
Don't be afraid, we'll make it out of this mess.
It's a love story! Baby just say 'Yes!'"

I got tired of waiting, wondering if you were ever comin' around.
My faith in you was fading, when I met you on the outskirts of town.

And I said...
"Romeo save me, I've been feelin' so alone.
I keep waiting for you but you never come."
Is this in my head? I don't know what to think.
He knelt to the ground, and pulled out a ring and said,
"Marry me, Juliet, you'll never have to be alone.
I love you and that's all I really know.
I talked to your dad, go pick out a white dress.
It's a love story! Baby just say 'Yes!'"

Oh, oh-oh.
Oh, oh-oh.
We were both young when I first saw you.

(End Song)

Meaning:

The song is a reimagining of Shakespeare's Romeo and Juliet, with key points rewritten, particularly avoiding the tragic ending.
The song is told from Juliet's point of view, flashing back to when they first met and both were young.

1. The ball scene from Shakespeare's play is referenced, where Romeo and Juliet first meet and speak to one another.
2. The balcony scene is referenced, with Romeo getting Juliet's attention by throwing pebbles (pebbles is an innovation).
Juliet doesn't want to be separated from Romeo as she's left crying on the staircase.
3. Juliet's father wants Romeo to stay away, as in the play their families are feuding. The term "scarlet letter" is applied to
Juliet, which is a reference to a Nathaniel Hawthorne book, where an adulteress is marked with a scarlet letter "A". Here the
scarlet letter references the idea that Juliet is off-limits with respect to Romeo.
4. In the play, Romeo and Juliet sneakily get married, but in the song Juliet sneaks out to the garden to get some time with 
Romeo.
5. Juliet expresses the idea that they can run off together in a fairy tale (prince/princess thing). This is a role reversal 
from the play where Romeo is more rash about the secret marriage than Juliet. In the song they don't run away and get married.
Juliet feels like she is in a tight spot where Juliet feels her family is dictating how she should feel about Romeo, the
situation is a mess, her feelings are very real, but expresses hope that they'll find a way out of it.
(Juliet to Romeo: "Baby say Yes!")
6. It seems like a significant time passes here with Juliet and Romeo not seeing each other, as Juliet expresses the ideas
that she's tired of waiting for Romeo, wondering if she'll ever see him again, losing faith in him, but finally out resolution
in a meeting on the outskirts of town.
7. And the resolution is not tragedy, although Juliet is not sure what happens is real or just in her head. Romeo
has discussed the matter with Juliet's father, and the marriage is ok. Romeo proposes traditionally with a ring, and Juliet
can pick out a traditional white dress for a public (not secret) wedding. (Romeo to Juliet: "Baby say 'Yes!'", with the phrase
now expressed in both directions).

The key structural difference between the song and the classic Romeo and Juliet is Juliet behaves more rashly than Romeo (a
reversal from the play, and also a gender reversal from the male stereotype of being hot-headed)

The structural difference allows for a different happier endpoint, but one can debate why. Was it the role reversal?
Was it historical changes in the notion of romance? Does the tragedy endpoint of the original make it irrelevant to modern
audiences? These are rhetorical questions, but we can all marvel at hearing Taylor Swift's personal version of a timeless story.