The Way (Fastball)
Released: 1998-01-07

Refrain:
Anyone can see the road that they walk on is paved in gold.
It's always summer, they'll never get cold.
They'll never get hungry, they'll never get old and grey.
You can see the shadows wandering off somewhere.
They won't make it home but they really don't care.
They wanted the highway, they're happier there.
Today. Today.

(Start Song)

They made up their mind, and they started packing.
They left before the sun came up that day.
An exit to eternal summer slacking.
But where were they going without ever knowing the way?

They drank up the wine, and they got to talking.
They now had more important things to say.
And when the car broke down, they started walking.
Where were they going without ever knowing the way?

[Refrain]

Children woke up, and they couldn't find 'em.
They left before the sun came up that day.
They just drove off and left it all behind 'em.
Where were they going without ever knowing the way?

[Refrain]
[Refrain]

(End Song)

Meaning: The songwriter came up with the song after learning of the disappearance of an elderly Texas couple. The song's scenario 
posits a couple leaving their homes for adventure on the road one summer morning, driving off and leaving their previous life behind 
them. They even don't tell their children (no details given of their children) their plans.

The refrain describes the short-term not-entirely-rational mindset of the couple, the downsides of which seem straightforward given 
the scenario. They see their path as paved with gold, they aren't worrying about getting cold (the season is summer), hungry, or old. 
They're not coming back home to their previous responsibilities. They are happier wandering on the highway. Carefree for today, at 
least.

The song suggests the possibility of alcohol fueling their choice, since drinking alcohol can lower inhibitions and bring people to 
say things they might not say otherwise. And the song suggests the possibility of severe consequences, as the couple's car breaks down (potentially in the middle of nowhere) so they abandon the car and start walking, which could be very bad, especially in a desert climate.
The songwriter wrote the song before the elderly Texas couple turned up dead in a ravine, which makes the consequences aspect of the 
song ring true even for the inspirational story. 

Some of the song is structured pointing more at the runaways being teenagers (e.g. exit to eternal summer slacking), perhaps
unwise alcohol usage. I remember as a teenager, this song was used as background for a presentation highlighting the negative 
consequences of drunk driving.

The rhetorical question posed by the song is "Where were they going without ever knowing the way?" The logical answer is "Nowhere" 
or even "Nowhere good". And yet the idea of leaving your life behind, and going somewhere different, even abandoning current 
burdensome responsibilities, can have a strong hold on the human mind. Can you ever escape your present reality? Perhaps, but you'd 
need to do better in discharging your responsibilities and your sense of direction than the cautionary tale in the song.