Orion is Arising by James Zimmerman
Arranged by Dan Myers
Performed by Skip Myers, Dan Myers, Julie Dutchak
YouTube Video ID: KEuOalGvLdg (2014-11-08)
for Orion Zev 2014-11-01

[Refrain]
And sleeping outside in a bag as a kid
It seems like the best thing that I ever did
And chasing the shadows
and the tracks in the snow
Dont you know, oh, oh

(Start Song)

Orion is arising
You can see his stars ablazing
in the middle of a clear-eyed country sky
And it's never too surprising
that the sky is still amazing
way out here where nothing hides it
from my eyes

[Refrain]

The days are getting longer
I really start to wonder why we're clouding all the country skies to gray
The world is getting colder
I can hear it in the thunder
and the rain may come and chase us all away

[Refrain]

The moon is on the wane
and it looks like it might rain
or maybe snow
And how are we to stay here
When there's no room left to play here
or to grow

Don't you know?
Don't you know?

(End Song)

Analysis: This comes from a fairly professionally produced YouTube video. It's based on the children's song
"Orion is a-rising". The same themes of air/light pollution and overpopulation are present.

One lyric that doesn't match my recollection is "The moon is on the wane". The cycle of the moon with respect to the Earth
is the moon transitions from new moon to full moon increasing in size (waxing). Then the moon transitions from full moon
to new moon (waning). And then the cycle repeats. It is easy to tell if the moon is waning by the left side of the moon
being visible and the right side obscured at some point. I prefer the lyric "The moon is on the way" because that fits
better with the song's goal of making a situation where the stars are maximally visible, and a not present moon sucks up
more light than a waning moon. Although when it comes down to it, it's just a lyrical choice.

The middle verse I do not remember from when I learned the song in 3rd grade music class. The line
"The world is getting colder" could refer to the problem of global cooling. In the 1960s and 1970s there was a concern
that the Earth's weather would secularly get colder, bringing on something like Ice Age conditions. That concern changed
in the 1980s and 1990s when updated data indicated global warming was really the problem. And that concern morphed later
into "climate change". The song's lyrics are an artifact of the specific concerns about global human impact on the climate
at the time. If you want the song to more reflect current realities, you could change the lyric (I've seen "The world is
getting older") or simply accept the song as is and treat the song as drawing attention to current global human impact on
the climate.

The middle verse also draws attention to another type of disaster: a flood. The lyric "the rain may come and chase us
all away" could refer to a micro-scale issue where the camping experience could be ruined or cut short by rain. But the
song is already discussing human-level climate events, so it's also possible the song is referring to water-based climate
change like rising sea levels and floods.

The lyric "The days are getting longer" most straightforwardly refers to the period from winter solstice to summer
solstice when the percentage of light time increases and the percentage of dark time decreases. This is a bit of a curious
choice for the lyric because Orion is commonly visible on the "days are getting shorter" part of the year.

Another odd choice is the location of the lyric "I can hear it in the thunder". That would most naturally belong with the 
subsequent rain reference "and the rain may come and chase us all away." However within the flow of the song the "it" more 
naturally goes with "The world is getting colder". But how can you determine the world is getting colder by listening to 
thunder? I think the answer to this question is more general: thunder is a warning. Although thunder comes after lighting
(which is more immediately dangerous), thunder can serve as a warning rain is coming, and when nearby can discombobulate an 
unprepared listener.

So the thunder analogizes well to the song itself, serving as an environmentalist warning of the impacts humans can have on 
the Earth's climate: air/light pollution, overpopulation, systemic climate change (global cooling when the song was written), 
rising sea levels and floods, using the lens of the shared experience of camping during childhood.

This version of the song is more confident there will eventually be no room left to play there, using a "when" vs an "if".
It also adds another verb that won't be possible: to "grow". The song is foreshadowing that long-term humanity's
impact on the environment will leave no room to play or grow. Playing and growing are features of childhood less seen in adults.
Maybe this means humanity itself metaphorically reaches adulthood, having learned the lessons of environmental destruction.
But where does humanity go from there? Is the environment capable of supporting staying on Earth at that point (the song asks
"how", without an answer)? Or does humanity need to look to the stars for a second home? So "don't you know?" is also asking
the listener to contemplate the possibility of extremely long-term consequences, either for the necessity of bolstering the earth's
habitability in the face of generations of environmental damage, or or a search elsewhere in the cosmos.

And although it flies in the face of what we know about extraterrestrial life (there doesn't seem to be any possibility
of any within reach), this seems it could be like an indirect message an alien civilization that has already trodden down this path 
might want to send to humanity as an attempt to influence our decisions in this area for the better. But it's not an extraterrestrial
message, it's a YouTube video showcasing a variation of a childhood song shared by many people. But maybe people can look
into the mirror, see a glimpse of the truth about exterrestrial existence, bring it back, and share it with others, and maybe
that's what's going on here.