She's Always a Woman (Billy Joel)

She can kill with a smile. She can wound with her eyes,
And she can ruin your faith with her casual lies,
And she only reveals what she wants you to see.
She hides like a child, but she's always a woman to me.

She can lead you to love, she can take you or leave you.
She can ask for the truth, but she'll never believe you,
And she'll take what you give her, as long as it's free.
Yeah, she steals like a thief, but she's always a woman to me.

Oh, she takes care of herself. She can wait if she wants. She's ahead of her time.
Oh, and she never gives out, and she never gives in. She just changes her mind,

And she'll promise you more than the Garden of Eden,
Then she'll carelessly cut you and laugh while you're bleedin',
But she'll bring out the best and the worst you can be.
Blame it all on yourself 'cause she's always a woman to me.

Mmmmmm, Mmmmmm, Mmmmmmmmmmmmmm.

Oh, she takes care of herself. She can wait if she wants. She's ahead of her time.
Oh, and she never gives out, and she never gives in. She just changes her mind.

She is frequently kind, and she's suddenly cruel.
She can do as she pleases, she's nobody's fool,
And she can't be convicted, she's earned her degree,
And the most she can do is throw shadows at you, but she's always a woman to me.

Mmmmmm, Mmmmmm, Mmmmmmmmmmmmmm.

Meaning: The speaker (song doesn't explicitly specify gender of the speaker but it's reasonable to think
the speaker is male (like Billy Joel), especially given the discussion of female traits/stereotypes 
in the song). The speaker is in a relationship with a woman with strong positive and negative qualities.

The line "she can kill with a smile", is a twist on the idea that a female's looks can metaphorically 
kill, but here it's referring to facial expressiveness, not general overall attractiveness, which is
also underscored by the following "she can wound with her eyes".

The song then discusses several negative quantities: lying casually (hampering trust), keeping private
information at her whims, and engaging in immature avoidance behaviors.

But... "she can lead you to love", so perhaps the speaker has a hard time loving others and despite
difficulties she fits the bill as someone he can love.

The line "she can take you or leave you" refers to the ultimatum "take it or leave it". Perhaps this
ultimatum has been used as part of conflict in the relationship, or perhaps it's a statement that
she likes the speaker to significantly different degrees at different times.

"She can ask for the truth, but she'll never believe you" indicates she doesn't trust the speaker. Are
both sides of the relationship untrustworthy or is this behavior irrational (we can only ask the question)?

The line "she'll take what you give her, as long as it's free" perhaps indicates that she takes more
in the relationship than she gives, or that she won't take gifts if there are strings attached, which is
also underscored by the following line "she steals like a thief".

There are then six lines that are repeated twice in the song:
1. She takes care of herself (perhaps she displays self-centered behavior)
2. She can wait if she wants (she is impatient unless she wants to be patient) 
3. She's ahead of her time (she doesn't conform to 1977-era female stereotypes)
4. She never gives out (she has a lot of energy)
5. She never gives in (conflict with her is protracted)
6. She just changes her mind (conflict with her can be resolved by her unexplainedly changing her opinion)

She overpromises (more than the Garden of Eden), and sometimes does hurtful when the speaker is hurt
(even with laughter). She displays kindness and cruelty, switching between them arbitrarily. Many times
she does what she wants (as she pleases). No one should think she's a fool, even despite odd behavior.

The line "she can't be convicted, she's earned her degree" references the idea that she never admits
her bad behavior with the speaker, she can always talk her way out of trouble. Perhaps the speaker
is not too great at handling his side of conflict either.

In total there are various negative quantities (including some that might be stereotypically ascribed
to women). But in this case, she brings out both the best and the worst of the speaker, and she's not 
physically violent (can only throw shadows at you)

Ultimately "she's always a woman to me" indicates that despite the turmoil of the relationship, 
she remains a woman the speaker loves, even if enigmatic.