We didn't Start the Fire (1989) (Billy Joel)

[Refrain]
We didn't start the fire.
It was always burnin'
Since the world's been turnin'
We didn't start the fire.
No, we didn't light it, but we tried to fight it.

Start Song:

[Verse 1]
Harry Truman, Doris Day, Red China, Johnnie Ray
South Pacific, Walter Winchell, Joe DiMaggio
Joe McCarthy, Richard Nixon, Studebaker, Television
North Korea, South Korea, Marilyn Monroe
Brando, The King and I, and The Catcher in the Rye
Eisenhower, Vaccine, England's got a new queen
Marciano, Liberace, Santayana good-bye

[Refrain]

Joseph Stalin, Malenkov, Nasser and Prokofiev
Rockefeller, Campanella, Communist Bloc
Roy Cohn, Juan Peron, Toscanini, Dacron
Dien Bien Phu falls, "Rock Around the Clock"
Einstein, James Dean, Brooklyn's got a winnin' team
Davy Crockett, Peter Pan, Elvis Presley, Disneyland
Bardot, Budapest, Alabama, Khruschev
Princess Grace, Peyton Place, Trouble in the Suez

[Refrain]

Little Rock, Pasternak, Mickey Mantle, Kerouac
Sputnik, Zhou En-lai, Bridge on the River Kwai
Lebanon, Charles de Gaulle, California baseball
Starkweather Homicide, Children of Thalidomide
Buddy Holly, Ben-Hur, Space Monkey, Mafia
Hula Hoops, Castro, Edsel is a no-go
U-2, Syngman Rhee, Payola, and Kennedy
Chubby Checker, Psycho, Belgians in the Congo

[Refrain]

Hemingway, Eichmann, Stranger in a Strange Land
Dylan, Berlin, Bay of Pigs Invasion
Laurence of Arabia, British Beetlemania
Ole Miss, John Glenn, Liston beats Patterson
Pope Paul, Malcolm X, British Politician Sex
JFK blown away, what else do I have to say?

[Refrain]

Birth Control, Ho Chi Minh, Richard Nixon back again
Moonshot, Woodstock, Watergate, Punk Rock
Begin, Reagan, Palestine, Terror on the Airline
Ayatollahs in Iran, Russians in Afghanistan
Wheel of Fortune, Sally Ride, Heavy Metal Suicide
Foreign Debts, Homeless Vets, AIDS, Crack, Bernie Goetz
Hypodermics on the Shores, China's under martial law
Rock and Roll 'a' Cola Wars, I can't take it anymore

We didn't start the fire.
It was always burning
since the world's been turning.
We didn't start the fire.
But when we are gone, it will still burn on, and on, and on, and on...

[Refrain x 3]

===

This song gives significant world events between World War II and when the song was written (1989).
It is a reminder that the world had problems before the singer was alive, and the world will have problems
after the singer is dead, but generally the world has been getting better over that time.

In particular, World War II presaged the Cold War, and the Cold War ended with the dissolution of the Soviet Union
around this time frame. But that meant a new era of challenges in the world, but the serious thread of nuclear
annihilation was gone at that point.