Commentary

I take the position that the first place religion on Earth is "Abrahamic" based on the shared traditions of Christianity and Islam. This also pulls in Judaism and Samaritanism. So if you reboot the Earth, place the common Abrahamic elements in the timeless, allowing the religions to use that as the starting point. Christianity and Islam currently interpret the shared tradition differently.

Christianity interprets it in the light of original sin doctrine (Adam's sin taints all of humanity) and Jesus Christ's redemption of humanity. Original sin was not taught by Jesus Christ, and instead developed over time in the early centuries of the church. Augustine of Hippo (354-430 CE) was the important figure in its development. Pelagianism (moral responsibility and self-discipline allow humans to obey God's law by free will alone) lost out.

Islam interprets it in light of Muhammed as the final prophet with a focus on submission to God, sometimes making this point clearer via taking out symbolic elements and removing morally ambiguous behavior of prophets.

I claim that Christianity and Islam develop their traditions in light of the starting point in the timeless, with details filled in appropriately as those religions develop. Modifications like "X was an important thing, but it really just presages Jesus Christ / Mohammed are just normal religion development.

I identify eight (8) figures/stories to use as starting points.

---

Adam/Eve (Creation Story)

In the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth. From clay or dust, God formed the first human, Adam, and breathed into him the breath of life. God placed Adam in a garden of paradise, where he was given a place of peace, purpose, and provision.

To keep Adam company, God created Eve, the first woman, from his side or from the same essence. Together, they were given responsibilities in the garden and were allowed to enjoy its blessings—with one exception: they were forbidden to approach the Tree of Knowledge of Good and Evil.

Tempted by Satan in the form of a snake, they both disobeyed God and ate from the tree. As a result, they became aware of their nakedness and felt shame. God called them to account and reminded them of the consequences of their actions.

They were then sent out of the garden to live on earth, where they would face labor, struggle, and mortality. However, God also provided them with guidance, clothing, and the chance to seek forgiveness and return to His favor through righteousness.

---

Enoch

Enoch was a righteous man and a descendant of Adam. He walked faithfully with God and was taken up by God, so that he did not experience an ordinary death.

---

Noah

As humanity became increasingly corrupt and violent, God chose Noah, a righteous man, to build an ark and preserve life through a coming flood. Noah obeyed and brought his family and pairs of animals aboard. The rains fell, and the waters covered the earth, but God remembered Noah and caused the waters to recede.

During the wait for dry land, Noah released a raven, then a dove. The dove returned with an olive leaf, and later did not return at all, signaling the earth was drying. When the flood ended, Noah offered prayers and sacrifices of gratitude.

God then made a covenant with Noah and all living things, promising never to destroy the earth by flood again. As a sign of this everlasting promise, God placed a rainbow in the sky.

---

Abraham/Sarah

Abraham is called by God to leave his homeland and journey to a new land, where he is promised numerous descendants and blessings. He remains faithful to God, even when tested—such as when he is asked to sacrifice his son. God intervenes and provides a ram instead. Abraham makes a covenant with God where Abraham becomes the father of many nations: through Isaac come the Israelites, and through Ishmael come many Arab peoples. Abraham is honored for his deep faith and obedience to God. The covenant includes a requirement that male descendants must be circumcized as a sign of the covenant.

---

Lot

Lot was a righteous man who lived in the city of Sodom amidst widespread corruption and immoral behavior. A second city was Gomorrah, and also Admah and Zeboiim. God sent messengers to warn Lot of impending destruction. He was told to leave the city with his family and not to look back. As God's punishment came upon the city, Lot and some of his family escaped. His wife, however, looked back and was turned into a pillar of salt. The city was destroyed, but Lot was saved because of his righteousness.

Lot went to the non-destroyed city of Zoar but was afraid to stay there. He settled in a cave in the hills with his two daughters. Lot's daughters believed that world had been destroyed, got Lot drunk, and became pregnant, spawning the Moabite and Annonite tribes.

---

Jacob

Jacob is the grandson of Abraham through Abraham's son Isaac. In his youth, Jacob receives his father’s blessing instead of his older twin brother, Esau. He later journeys to another land, marries, and fathers many children, who become the ancestors of the Twelve Tribes of Israel (or the "Children of Israel").

Jacob is known for his strong faith and perseverance. He has a profound spiritual dream of a ladder reaching to heaven. Later he wrestles with an angel and is given the name Israel, meaning "one who strives with God."

----

Joseph

Joseph is the son of Jacob and is deeply loved by his father, with favoritism shown by a father's gift of a coat of many colors. His special status and dreams of greatness stir jealousy among his brothers. They plot against him—throwing him into a well—and later sell him into slavery.

Joseph is taken to Egypt, where he is sold to a high-ranking official. He proves trustworthy. He is falsely accused of raping the official's wife, with a torn shirt relevant to the accusation. While in prison, he interprets dreams, eventually gaining a reputation that reaches Pharaoh.

Joseph is brought before Pharaoh to interpret a troubling dream with seven fat cows eaten by seven thin cows, and seven plump/green ears of corn swallowed by seven dry/thin/scorched ones. Other dream interpreters are stumped, but Joseph explains as a coming famine after years of plenty. Impressed, Pharaoh appoints Joseph to oversee the food supply. Joseph’s careful planning saves Egypt and surrounding regions.

During the famine, Joseph’s brothers come to Egypt seeking food. They do not recognize him, but Joseph tests them and eventually reveals his identity. He forgives them and invites the whole family, including his father Jacob, to settle in Egypt, marking the beginning of the Israelite's stay in Egypt

----

Moses

Moses is born during a time when the Pharaoh of Egypt has ordered the killing of Israelite baby boys. To save him, his mother places him in a basket in the river, where he is found and adopted by Pharaoh’s family. Eventually he comes to learn of his identity as a Hebrew.

As an adult, Moses sees an Egyptian mistreating an Israelite and intervenes, killing the Egyptian. He flees Egypt and lives in exile, where he receives a divine call through a burning bush. God commands him to return to Egypt and free the Israelites from slavery.

Moses confronts Pharaoh, demanding the release of the Israelites. When Pharaoh refuses, God sends plagues upon Egypt. Eventually, Pharaoh relents, and Moses leads the Israelites out of Egypt, miraculously parting the sea for them to escape. Pharaoh’s army is drowned.

Moses then leads his people through the wilderness. On Mount Sinai, he receives divine law/commandments on stone tablets. The Israelites fashion themselves a golden calf from melted ornaments. When Moses sees this, he becomes enraged, breaks the stone tablets, and the golden calf. God punishes the Israelites by making them wander the wilderness for forty years. Moses would never enter the Promised Land, but did see it from Mount Nebo.

----

Catalysms

The story of Noah is a global cataclysm and the story of Lot is a local cataclysm (perceived in story as a global cataclysm). Islam omits morally ambiguous behavior to keep its prophets pure. Some of the morally ambiguous behavior are petty grievances against tribes competitive with the Israelites (Noah's cursing of Ham's son Canaan after Ham spreads news of Noah's behavior and Lot's daughters repopulating Moabite/Ammonite tribes using incest).

I think a local and global cataclysm are still needed/important/useful for a world reboot, but I think we can toss the morally ambiguous behavior as non-value add and leave it out of the timeless, leaving a global cataclysm flood and a local cataclysm punishing wicked cities. This is also an opportunity to protect the Sodom story from an interpretation of the wickedness of homosexuality, which is problematic in a modern context. Religions can choose to ignore the parts they disagree with, and humans are capable of kicking such interpretations out of the timeless, but +1 protection against anti-homosexuality might lessen the pain later.

Judgment Order

Here's how I order religious judgment at the end of the age.

Level 1: Abrahamic religions (nothing truly needed here because of level 4 expansion)
Level 2: Buddhism, Hinduism (no short-shrifting here since actually processed first)
Level 3: Folk religions, Atheists, Non-religious (the biggest problems due to lack of consistent rules)
Level 4: Christianity, Islam, Judaism, Samaritanism
Level 5: Sikhism, Spiritism, Taoism, Confucianism, Baháʼí

Biggest potential problems: Jainism, Yazidism, Zoroastrianism, Mandaeism (although it's possible the pan-creed nature of Baháʼí renders any issues moot)