Orion is a-rising (Campfire Song)

Orion is a-rising, you can see his stars a-blazing
In the middle of a clear night country sky.
And it's never too surprising that the sky is so amazing
Way out here where nothing hides it from my eye.
And sleeping outside in a bag as a kid,
It seems like the best thing that I ever did.
And chasing the shadows and the tracks in the snow.
Don't you know?
The moon is on its way, and it looks like it might rain or maybe snow.
And how are we to stay here if there's no room left to play here.
Don't you know?
Don't you know?

Meaning:
Orion is a prominent set of stars visible during winter in the north celestial hemisphere. The number of visible
stars depends on the clarity of the sky. On a clear night in the country, when nothing hides the constellation
from sight, more stars are visible. Weather conditions such as haze, as well as light and air pollution can reduce 
the number of visible. The constellation can be recognizable even by seeing two stars (Betelgeuse and Rigel), as
those stars are bright and have a distinctive color (Betelgeuse=Reddish, Rigel=Bluish). The more of the constellation
is visible, the more impressive. Another factor influencing the visibility of the stars is the presence of the moon. When the moon is visible that
makes the stars harder to see. So "the moon is on the way" means the moon hasn't risen yet. 

A common scenario for viewing the constellation with maximum visibility is during camping. Camping can take place in
rural areas with less light and air pollution. Sleeping in a sleeping bag is a common feature of camping. Many
humans regard camping they did as a kid as a happy memory, for some it could be the happiest childhood memory they
have.

In asking "Don't you know?", the singer asks the listener to think about their own memories of camping, with the
intention of bringing about a shared common happy experience of the past.

So in total the song imagines a shared happy experience where Orion is maximally visible. But you don't always get 
maximum visibility. You're at the mercy of the weather (rain or snow interferes).

But there is a deeper message in the song in the lyric "how are we to stay here if there's no room left to play here?"
Camping takes place in rural areas, but as human civilization urbanizes, light and air pollution increases, encroaching
on rural areas, with a consequence that many places have their star viewing capacity reduced. And perhaps that
mean camping becomes less awesome so less people want to camp so it's harder to find the space available.

The lyric can also be interpreted as drawing attention to overpopulation (no room left to play here). Human population 
started massively increasing during the Industrial Revolution. And people have been worrying about the possibility of 
human population going beyond the Earth's carrying capacity ever since. Two thinkers relevant to the issue are Thomas 
Robert Malhus (1700s) and Paul Ehrlich (modern era). The idea is overpopulation is and has been heavily debated, with 
no consensus even that it is actually a problem.

The song takes the environmentalist side on the overpopulation and air/light pollution issues. The final "Don't you know?"s 
draw the listener's attention to these issues, suggesting that the listener think about their choices and their impact on 
the environment to keep the happy experience of camping available for future generations.