Particle Man (They Might Be Giants)

Particle Man, Particle Man.
Doin' the things a particle can.
What's he like? It's not important.
Particle Man.

Is he a duck, or is he a speck?
When he's underwater does he get wet?
Or does the water get him instead?
Nobody knows, Particle Man.

Triangle Man, Triangle Man.
Triangle Man hates Particle Man.
They have a fight, Triangle wins.
Triangle Man.

Universe Man, Universe Man.
Size of the entire Universe Man.
Usually kind to smaller man.
Universe Man.
He's got a watch with a minute hand.
Millenium hand, and an eon hand.
And when they meet, it's happy land.
Powerful man, Universe Man.

Person Man, Person Man.
Hit on the head with a frying pan.
Lives his life in a garbage can.
Person Man.
Is he depressed or is he a mess?
Does he feel totally worthless?
Who came up with person man?
Degraded man, Person Man.

Triangle Man, Triangle Man
Triangle Man hates Person Man.
They have a fight, Triangle wins.
Triangle Man.

Meaning: The song presents personas from multiple levels of scale, projecting humanlike qualities into them, calling them 
Particle Man, Triangle Man, Universe Man, and the self-referential Person Man. Particle Man represents the atomic scale, 
Universe Man represents the cosmological scale of the universe, Person Man represents the human scale. Triangle Man doesn't 
have a physical scale, he belongs to an abstract scale of math and geometry. For Particle Man, the song discusses the mysteries 
of the atomic scale (e.g. what atomic scale entities really are [for human practical application this isn't usually important], 
and what happens when particles interact with water). Universe man is described as kind/powerful to those residing inside him, 
and the song discusses the time scales of the universe by pondering what kind of a watch a universe-scale being would have. 
Person Man is discussed as an object of injury, depression, and hopelessness, unpleasant feelings common to humans but not to 
abstract beings. No details of Triangle Man are discussed, except that Triangle Man hates Particle Man and Person Man. Perhaps 
the atomic scale resists a full mathematical description of its inner working, and people behave unpredictably and 
nonmathematically. That could be why they would arise hatred in an abstract mathematical being. Of course, it's funny that an 
abstract mathematical being would only be able to have feelings of hatred by projecting human behaviors onto them.

