Canticle of the Turning

Refrain:
My heart shall sing of the day you bring, let the fires of your justice burn.
Wipe away all tears/fears, for the dawn draws near, and the world is about to turn.

(Start Song)

My soul cries out with a joyful shout that the God of my heart is great,
And my spirit sings of the wondrous things that you bring to the ones who wait.
You set your sight on your servant's plight, and my weakness you did not spurn,
So from east to west shall my name be blest, could the world be about to turn?

[Refrain using tears]

Though I am small, my God, my all, you work great things in me,
And your mercy will last from the depths of the past to the end of the age to be.
Your very name puts the proud to shame, and to those who would for you yearn,
You will show your might, put the strong to flight, for the world is about to turn.

[Refrain using tears]

From the halls of power to the fortress tower, not a stone will be left on stone.
Let the kings beware for your justice tears ev'ry tyrant from his throne.
The hungry poor shall weep no more, for the food they can never earn.
There are tables spread, ev'ry mouth be fed, for the world is about to turn.

Though the nations rage from age to age, we remember who holds us fast.
God's mercy must deliver us from the conqueror's crushing grasp.
This saving word that our forebears heard is the promise which holds us bound.
'Til the spear and rod can be crushed by God, who is turning the world around.

[Refrain using fears]

And the world is about to turn.
The world is about to turn!

(End Song)

Meaning: This song anticipates God doing something to help the weak/poor/oppressed, and the singer joyfully awaits
this. The singer belives God takes an interest in fallible humans that serve God and yearn for God, and the singer, despite 
being only a human, wants to participate in the activity, and believes God will bless the activity, and allow the singer to
participate in God's plan, possibly violently. God can deal with others who are proud, or powerful tyrants, or angry nations, 
and serve God's justice. This will allow weak/poor/oppressed will be able to obtain things they cannot otherwise gain (e.g. food)
in this cruel world. This will reduce sadness and fear in the world, but we must remember to humble ourselves to God 
when he chooses to make the world turn the page, that he may show mercy for those who deserve it and crush those who deserve 
it too.

This could refer to the second coming of Christ, could refer to any worldly event or process that can be considered as
helping the weak/poor/oppressed. The time range is the depths of the past to the end of the age to be, so any time period in
human history or future is fair game.