The Sound of Silence (Simon & Garfunkel)
Album: Sounds of Silence
Released 1966-01-17

Hello, darkness, my old friend.
I've come to talk with you again,
Because a vision softly creeping,
Left its seeds while I was sleeping,
And the vision that was planted in my brain,
Still remains
Within the sound of silence.

In restless dreams I walked alone.
Narrow streets of cobblestone.
'Neath the halo of a street lamp,
I turned my collar to the cold and damp,
When my eyes were stabbed by the flash of a neon light
That split the night,
And touched the sound of silence.

And in the naked light I saw
Ten thousand people, maybe more.
People talking without speaking,
People hearing without list'ning,
People writing songs that voices never share,
And no one dare
Disturb the sound of silence.

"Fools!" said I, "You do not know:
Silence like a cancer grows!
Hear my words that I might teach you!
Take my arms that I might reach you!"
But my words like silent raindrops fell,
And echoed in the wells of silence.
And the people bowed and prayed
To the neon God they made.
And the sign flashed out its warning,
In the words that it was forming.
And the sign said "The words of the prophets are written on the subway walls and tenement halls
And whispered in the sounds of silence."

Meaning: At the beginning, the singer says "Hello darkness my old friend". The entire song is a conversation with this darkness,
so the listener can be analogized to darkness.

Awhile back the singer had a dream containing the beginnings of a vision. The singer knows the vision was planted in
his head by some unknown or not discussed actor. The vision has developed over subsequent dreams. The vision resides in what
the singer refers to as the "sound of silence".

"Sound of silence", as a matter of language, is obviously a contradiction, as silence means no sound. However, 
as practical matter of song interpretation, we need to accept the premise that silence can take on qualities of sound.

The first part of the dream involves the singer walking alone near the glow of a street lamp. The singer sees a neon
light that makes a great impression on the singer, and the singer says neon light touched the "sound of silence".

The neon sign allows the singer to see a multitude of people (10,000+). The people display curious and seemingly contradictory
behavior: they talk without speaking, hear without listening, write songs that are not sung, and do not dare disturb the 
"sound of silence".

The singer objects to this behavior, not liking the silence one bit. Perhaps the singer is thinking of the silent treatment,
which could be used as a cruel way of shunning other people. A lack of communication can poison human relationships. But the singer's
attempt to reach the people utterly fails: they are only responsive to the silent communication possible under the sound of silence.
The singer's words fall on deaf ears, metaphorically ending up inside deep wells of silence.

Another piece of curious behavior is then given: the people are using the neon sign as if as an object of worship. It is also
revealed that the neon sign changes the words it forms, and indeed the sign flashes a warning to the singer (and by extension the
listener too) with specific words: "The words of the prophets are written on the subway walls and tenement halls and whispered in the 
sounds of silence."

There are many questions that arise trying to interpret this song: Why is the listener analogized to darkness? Who planted the vision in the singer's head? Who are the 10,000? How are they 
talking without speaking, hearing without listening, and writing songs that are not sung? Why are they following the 
"sound of silence"? Why are they unresponsive to persuasion? Why are they worshiping a neon sign? What does the sign's warning 
mean? And perhaps above all else, how does silence obtain qualities of sound to make this all possible?

The song is difficult to interpret, and the singer knows this, to the point where the singer is skeptical anyone is actually capable
of hearing the song's true meaning. This is why the listener is analogized to darkness, because the singer has sung the song many
times and doesn't actually think anyone is truly listening. But the singer is still singing the song out loud, so there is hope.

Some external force must have planted the vision in the singer's head. We have a group of 10000 people with otherworldly abilities, 
which seems an obvious source. But the group's behavior does not lend itself to communication of their purposes. I resolve this
by ascribing a rogue element of the 10000 doing the planting with the general idea of subverting the group's purpose. This rogue
actor can't communicate directy because they are bound by the sound of silence, but the singer is not so bound and thus can be
an intermediary by which the rogue actor communicates indirectly.

Given this, it seems appropriate to treat the group's neon sign as suspect. Why are they pointing to banal locations (subway walls
and tenement halls) as repositories of divine information? Given the otherworldly quality of the group, it is reasonable to believe
there is an aspect of the divine involved, although the singer and listener can't be expected to understandi the underlying purpose.
Maybe the neon sign is a showy way of pointing the singer/listener in the wrong direction.

But what is the right direction? I think the secret is in the interpretation of the song. To interpret the song effectively, you 
have to understand songs have sophisticated multilayered meanings with multiple interpretations, and understand song lyrics can
speak to deep, unsettling truths about the universe and beyond, and understand limitations of interpretive skill and the ability
to communicate them. And if you can do that with this song, you can do it with other songs (not explicitly pointed to by the song). *

But keep in mind not everyone will gravitate to the deepest level interprations. Subway walls and tenement halls will have personal
meaning for many people. There could be specific messages relevant to some interpretations, such as the graffiti slogan "Frodo 
Lives" from the 1960s-1970s. And other types of walls and halls could be appropriate sinks for divine information.

And bottom line, the warning does say "[the words of the prophets are] whispered in the sounds of silence". This the only place in
the song where sound is pluralized. Maybe the veil of silence actually can be pierced after all, but perhaps silently and secretly.

* GPT Suggests the following bullet points as lessons:
1. Song lyrics can hold unsettling truths.
2. Multiple valid interpretations exist.
3. The difficulty of interpretation mirrors the difficulty itself
4. You are already doing exactly what the song wants you to do