These are our Pets (Personal Original Song)

(Start Song)

Elsie is fat!
She is a cat!
But if you saw her,
You would not believe that.

[optional interlude repeating the melody but without words]

Ted is confused!
He's been abused!
By those evil Rowe children
Who cannot be excused.

[same optional interlude]

Snowflake's insane!
She feels no pain!
She goes after the hand
With her pea-sized brain.

[same optional interlude]

Snowball has two
Eyes, one is blue
And the other is green
So she doesn't look like you.

[same optional interlude]

Tigger will go
Outside, you know
To escape from this
Rat-infested hellhole.

[same optional interlude]

Gretel has got
What they do not
And what that is
Is the giant red spot

[same optional interlude]

Prince looks so bad,      Prince looked so bad,
He'll soon be dead,       He now is dead,
But he'd rather be that   But he'd rather be that
Than end up like Ted.     Than end up like Ted.

[same optional interlude]

These are our pets.
They are a mess,
And that is why that
I'm so depressed.

(End Song)

Meaning: This is a song about seven pets that my family (mother, father, sister, and me) had: 5 cats (Snowball/Elsie/Snowflake/Tigger/Gretel) and 2 dogs (Teddy/Prince). The family owned all the pets, and they were all alive at the same time from early 1990-04-10 (when Snowball gave birth to Elsie/Snowflake/Tigger/Gretel) to 2002-09-28 (when Prince died). The song was written over that time period, reaching its final form after Prince died. The song mixes exaggeration of the cats' traits, insults both to the cats and the family unit, and frustration with life in general.

Verse 1: Elsie was on the pudgy side (~16 pounds maximum). The song exaggerates her fatness for comic effect. I would occasionally send fat-related insults her way in real life.
Verse 2: Teddy (Ted) was frequently confused, particularly when an unfamiliar noise would be heard, he would look stupidly off, seemingly not understanding the noise. My sister and I would sometimes insult his intelligence. For 4-H dog training I tried to train Ted, and occasionally when he was not getting it I used the choke chain excessively.
Verse 3: Snowflake liked to sit on the table where she would commonly get attention from humans. Sometimes my sister and I would wiggle our hand in her direction, and Snowflake would move her head toward the hand to be petted. Sometimes by positioning our hand outside the confines of the table we were able to get her to fall off the table by this means. She generally landed on her feet like cats usually do. The "feels no pain" isn't based on cat reality, it's more a reflection that a human could not fall off the table at a human scale without injury.
Verse 4: Snowball was an odd-eyed cat, with one blue eye and one green eye. In reality I think there was a little green in the blue eye. Being odd-eyed is much more common in cats than humans, hence the line "so she doesn't look like you".
Verse 5: Tigger escaped the house a few times, resulting in a search outside to find here to bring her back inside. I remember one time she stayed out all night and didn't get back until the morning. At the time I wasn't very happy with my home life, so I projected the idea onto Tigger that she left to escape the family hell-hole.
Verse 6: When Gretel got old, she developed a prominent red spot on her understand. It wasn't all that big, it is was noticeable enough to be described in the song.
Verse 7: Prince didn't enter the song until very late in his life when he was sick and dying. The verse includes an insult directed at Teddy, suggesting that Prince would rather be dead than be stupid and confused at Ted's level. There are two versions of the verse, one to be used when Prince was still alive and one to be used when he was dead. Prince is dead so the final lyric is used more often, but sometimes the pre-death version is used accidentally or when remembering him still alive.
Verse 8: The last verse describes the pets as a mess and ascribes the singer's depression to them. The pets were a lot of responsibility for the family unit and a motivating factor in the parents' separation (my father did not like the cats). But the pets were also a source of happiness - songs, companionship, even insults (it's safer to insult pets since they don't understand insults thrown at them like humans do). Nevertheless I was fairly unhappy at the time and used the song as an outlet for that frustration.