Elegy to Stocco (created while taking care of my dying mother). Sung to the tune of Cat's Cradle (one verse).

I petted a cat, the other day.
His name was Stocco and he liked to play.
He was named for a quarterback of his day.
If asked to use the litter box, he'd say "No way!".
I thought he was immortal, but that wasn't true.
Oh, Stocco, it was nice knowing you, cat.
Oh, Stocco, we loved you.
And the cat was in the freezer with the chili and soup.
I buried him back with the rest of the troop.
Good-bye Stocco, I'm sorry you died.
We'll see you on the other side, cat.
We'll see you on the other side.

Meaning: Stocco was originally my sister's cat, but my mother acquired him sometime in 2007 or a bit before. I lived with Stocco between September 2023 and December 2023
starting when my mother was dying from cancer and unable to manage living on her own. I petted Stocco many times on many different days.
He was playful a normal amount for cats, and got less playful as he aged. His namesake was John Stocco, a quarterback for the University of Wisconsin at Madison 
from 2003-2007, later a backup quarterback for the Indianapolis Colts behind Peyton Manning. He wasn't fully house trained which was a factor in Sonya handing off
ownership responsibility to my mother. My mother put down pieces of paper next to the litter boxes (we called them "Stocco pee papers") and Stocco would usually use 
them instead of the litter box. This isn't intended as an insult - it's who Stocco was. Stocco lived to be 18 years old - I would joke he was an immortal cat (15 years
is a good top range for normal cat life span). Even that immortality joke was difficult because my mother had some level of denial about death (sometimes based on her 
language it seemed she thought she would never die), and I had difficulty processing the concept of immortality in that context. He died of a stroke or anoxic event on
Christmas Eve. He was the last pet buried in my mother's pet graveyard, but he couldn't be buried immediately because of the frozen ground. Pending it getting warm
enough for burial, his body was left in the freezer until burial was possible. It was the same freezer we kept food in (for example chili and soup sent by neighbors and
friends of my mother. When it was possible, I found a gravestone from the roadside area that had many stones we had used for previous pets (old farm field stones),
hauled it up to the pet graveyard out back, buried its body, and put the gravestone in place. There are over 20 pets in the pet graveyard, they are the rest of the
troop. The "we'll see you on the other side" line is not really reflective of me (I've been an atheist for most of my life). But maybe caring for my dying mother and
dying Stocco gave me a better appreciation of the religious side of death. And maybe that's why I feel said when singing this song.

