One of Us (Eric Bazillian)

[Refrain]
And yeah, yeah, God is great.
Yeah, yeah, God is good.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah,
What if God was one of us,
Just a slob like one of us?
Just a stranger on a bus, 
Tryin' to make his way home.

(Begin Song)

If God had a name, 
What would it be and would you call it to his face,
If you were faced with him in all his glory?
What would you ask if you had just one question?

[Refrain]

If God had a face,
What would it look like and would you want to see,
If seeing meant that you would have to believe,
In things like heaven and in Jesus and the saints,
And all the prophets?

[Refrain]

He's tryin' to make his way home,
Back up to heaven all alone.
Nobody calling on the phone,
'Cept for the Pope, maybe, in Rome.

[Refrain]

Just tryin' to make his way home,
Like a holy rollin' stone,
Back up to heaven all alone,
Just tryin' to make his way home,
Nobody calling on the phone,
'Cept for the Pope, maybe, in Rome.

(End Song)

Meaning: The song ponders the possibility that God would walk the Earth in human form. The mention of the Pope indicates the Christian God is at issue. But this divinity is different than Jesus Christ's combination of divine
and humanity. The song is talking about the possibility that God would show up on Earth anonymously, as an ordinary person.

The first verse asks a rhetorical question of how you would speak to God in person. Humans generally have names, so would you call God by his name or a title of God-worthy respect? Another rhetorical question is asked
of what would be one question to ask of God? The song suggests this would happen simultaneously with seeing God in all his glory, so perhaps another question is whether a person could even get in a position to stand up to
God in this way.

The second verse asks rhetorical questions of what would God's human face look like, and whether gazing upon the face of God would require to to change your religious beliefs (e.g. about heaven, Jesus, saints, and prophets).
And if you knew the consequences would you shy away from looking.

The song's view of God in earth is that God is tryin' to make his way home. This refers to both the human God's human home (traveling on a bus), as well as heaven (God's divine home). The song suggests this is difficult.
God is described as a "slob" like other humans, perhaps the disorderly nature of human living seems incompatible with the divine. The song also suggests God is quite alone (nobody calling on the phone). Perhaps God is also
aware of the difficult rhetorical questions posed by the song and thus require him to limit contact with other humans. But the song suggests there might be a connection with the Pope in Rome, maybe that connection could be
leveraged to makes God's job a bit easier. But even though the song describes God's task as difficult, he is still described as like a holy rollin' stone, which means, whatever God's outward appearance, he's still a rock 
star human analogous to the Rolling Stones. Maybe we don't need to worry about God after all, and maybe we should think more about the rhetorical questions. Maybe we're not likely to see God in person, but maybe it would 
do us some good and solidify our belief structure.



