I am the Pope (Original Song)

The song is intended to be sung as a solo, but it's possible multiple people could sing it in unison. The intent is it be sung at a constant tempo (not accelerando or ritardando).
The intent is the song take a bit less than roughly 30 seconds to sing.

(Start Song)

I am the Pope!
I am the Pope!
I am the Pope!
I am the Pope!
I'm not the Pope!

I'm not the Pope!
I'm not the Pope!
I'm not the Pope!
I'm not the Pope!
I am the Pope!

I am the Pope!
I am the Pope!
I am the Pope!
I am the Pope!
I'm not the Pope!

I'm not the Pope!
I'm not the Pope!
I'm not the Pope!
I'm not the Pope!
I am the Pope!

(End Song)

Meaning: The song ponders the strange possibility that the singer (or each individual singer) would  become or be the Pope. It's not intended to be making fun of Christianity or Catholicism or the papacy.
It's a silly way for the singer to imagine becoming pope even if it's impossible.

The Pope is the monarch of Vatican City (the world's smallest independent country) and the head of the Catholic Church. It is an elected office. When the current pope dies or resigns, the new pope is elected 
by cardinals appointed by the current or previous popes. The pope is required to be a male Catholic, so there are only 700 million candidates from the world's 8 billion people. However, in practice the 
cardinals elevate one of their own to be pope, so there are really ~240 cardinals to choose from. And even from that list, those over 80 years old cannot vote and won't be chosen by custom, leaving a 
140-150 strong pool of truly realistic candidates. We could probably go further if we understood the political dynamics of the cardinals, but this is as close as this analysis gets. Becoming a cardinal
requires becoming a priest and bishop first, which is a lot of training. There is only one Pope at a time, with a brief vacancy occurring between popes.

Truth/Untruth Detector

One general problem is determining when a human is telling the truth. This is especially challenging if the human is you and you're not sure if you're telling the
truth. For example, your subconscious may have a better understanding then you do. Any divine or cosmic forces watching you may also have a better idea of the truth.
Perhaps it would be helpful to have a song that forces a human's truth/untruth state to untruth. I believe "I am the Pope" can be such a song under some circumstances.

The following properties make the song useful for truth determination:
1. It can be sung solo.
2. It can be sung a cappella with minimal understanding of singing.
3. It requires some understanding of who the Pope is.
4. The song's truth value is always computed with respect to the singer. The singer must maintain the truth value thoughout the song to maintain the song's truth. The
singer must make it all the way through the song without interruption to have a truth value.

The song is always untruth for the following reasons:
1. Objective Untruth. The song fails at the start (per the title) for anyone who is not the Pope. The song fails at line 5 for the Pope (in the unlikely event the Pope indulges the song).
2. Subjective Untruth. If a human believes they are transitioning between pope and non-pope with the song's lyrics, magic must be used to effect the switch.
Humans cannot perform magic.
3. 3 Papal Reigns. The song envisions being pope three times. Exactly one pope in history (Benedict IX) has three papal reigns. No one else has even two, and the politics 
around the papacy make it practically impossible this will happen again, because age and the previous resignation would counsel against the cardinals voting for a previous pope again.
The song was created after Benedict IX's human death, so no humans alive today and going forward can have this aspect of the song be true with respect to them.
4. Personal. As the creator and owner of the song I decree a timeless purpose of the song is detecting truth/untruth. I cannot change the song in a way that 
subverts this purpose. I am not a past Pope (I have a currently-up-to-date list of Popes and I can prove I am not on the list). I cannot be a future Pope, since that would 
require changing my religion which I am not going to do, waiting for my spouse to die which I am not going to speed up, and going to seminary for years which I am not going to do.
I also sworn an oath with Chat GPT as my witness that I will not become Pope. I do not believe I can be used as a loophole for the song's purpose.
5. Papal Infallibility. One objection that could be raised regards papal infallibility. A naive observer could think that papal infallibility could imply the pope could sing 
the song and be guaranteed to have it be truth because of papal infallibility. This is falsehood. The doctrine of papal infallibility applies only to the timeless religious doctrine 
of the Catholic Church. Papal infallibility has only been invoked twice making the Immaculate Conception and Assumption of Mary timeless Catholic doctrine. The subject of the 
song does not fall under possible timeless Catholic doctrine, as timeless Catholic doctrine cannot be made contradictory. Anyone who claims papal infallibility is a loophole
for this song is simply incorrect.
6. Antipopes. Historically there have been times when multiple humans claimed to be the Pope. The Vatican has an official list of historical popes. The title of Antipope is bestowed 
by historians on humans who seemed to have a legitimate claim to be Pope, but lost out in the end. For an Antipope "I am the Pope" is claimed true at the time and "I'm not the Pope" is 
true in a historical sense. But both of those can't be true at the same point in time, since human logic (past or present) doesn't allow for consistency and logical contradiction.
7. 30 Second Transitions. The song takes roughly 30 seconds to sing, and envisions two transitions out of becoming pope and two transitions into becoming Pope. The song could 
in principle be timed to line up with one transition but with all the ceremony involved in becoming pope, it is not possible for two transitions to take place within the song's 
usual runtime.
8. Multiple Singers. While multiple singers can sing the song in unison simultaneously, the song's truth value is computed separately for each individual singer. The song's collective
truth value is the boolean value for each individual singer (true meaning truth, false meaning falsehood) ANDed together. To make the song's collective truth
value be true, every singer would need to separately find a loophole to make their individual value be true.
9. Saying "Yes". The modern way of accepting the papacy involves answering "Yes" aloud to the question "Do you accept your canonical election as Supreme Pontiff?". There is no
word "Yes" in the song so the song would be interrupted by saying this. This prevents any transitions to being pope from occurring inside the song's time window.
10. Resignation. The run-of-the-mill situation where the pope leaves the papacy by dying does not help the song's purpose. Modern popes can resign, such as Benedict XVI. Being deposed
is possible but not likely to happen in a modern situation. There's nothing wrong with having the pope's two transitions out of the papacy being resignations if a loophole up
to that point is found.
11. Seriousness. Suppose you're being silly or pretending the song is something other than what it is. Does the song still have a truth value? Yes, objective truth still applies.
12. Tempo Slowdown. One way to cheat the song would be to play the song slow enough it encompasses the transition points. We have a test case for this in Benedict IX. And his
papal dates are more uncertain than modern popes, so testing this possibility against Benedict IX suggests whether this cheat is plausible.

Song order:
01 beat = Indeterminate (beat 0)
11 beat = Pope          (beat 1-11)
01 beat = Indeterminate (beat 12)
15 beat = Not Pope      (beat 13-27)
01 beat = Indeterminate (beat 28)
15 beat = Pope          (beat 29-43)
01 beat = Indeterminate (beat 44)
15 beat = Not Pope      (beat 45-59)
01 beat = Indeterminate (beat 60)
Post    = Pope

Benedict IX:
1032-08-01 (ambiguous)
1032-09-30 (pope)
1044-09-01 (ambiguous)
1044-09-30 (not pope)
1045-03-10 (pope)
1045-05-01 (not pope)
1047-10-01 (ambiguous)
1047-10-31 (not pope)
1048-08-01 (ambiguous)
1048-08-31 (not pope)

The biggest problem for the song is Benedict's second reign which lasts ~50 days. This corresponds to beats 29-43 of the song which can expand to 28-44 if we include
indeterminate boundary points. But that limits the song length itself to ~200 days. Benedict IX was not the pope between 1045-05-01 and at least 1047-10-01 which is
over 500 days. Thus the song cannot be cheated using tempo slowdown to cover Benedict's IX papacy. Sending the song back in time using Benedict IX won't work.

Truth/Untruth Detector Usefulness

Since the song's truth value is always untruth, singing it resets the user's truth flag to a clean slate of untruth. Then the singer can say something whose truth value 
is in question. Any truth detected after that point must be attributed to the post-song statement, since it cannot be attributed to the song or anything said previous
to the song. This could be useful for an entity (including oneself) trying to glean information of the truth of a statement. It also could be useful in resolving conflicts 
between multiple truth/untruth detection method producing contradictory results.