Truth Detector (I am the Pope)

One general problem is determining when a human is telling the truth. This is especially challenging if the human is you and you're not sure if you're telling the
truth. For example, your subconscious may have a better understanding then you do. Any divine or cosmic forces watching you may also have a better idea of the truth.

Perhaps it would be helpful to have a song that forces a human's truth/untruth state to untruth. I believe "I am the Pope" can be such a song under some circumstances.

Properties
1. It can be sung solo.
2. It can be sung a cappella with minimal understanding of singing.
3. It requires some understanding of who the Pope is (The pope is a human who is the head of the Catholic Church. Very few men are eligible to be pope. It requires a lot of
work to get there. There is only one Pope at any given time. The pope usually stops becoming pope at death.
4. The song's truth value is always computed with respect to the singer. The singer must maintain the truth value thoughout the song to maintain the song's truth. The
singer must make it all the way through the song without interruption to have a truth value.

The song is always untruth for the following reasons:

1. Objective Untruth. The song fails at the start (per the title) for anyone who is not the Pope. The song fails at line 5 for the Pope.
2. Subjective Untruth. If a human believes they are transitioning between pope and non-pope with the song's lyrics, magic must be used to effect the switch.
Humans cannot perform magic.
3. Pope Reigns 3x. The song envisions being pope three times. Exactly one pope in history (Benedict IX) has three papal reigns. No one else has even two, and the politics 
around the papacy make it practically impossible this will happen again. The song was created after Benedict IX's human death, so no humans alive today and going forward 
can have this aspect of the song be true with respect to them.
4. Personal. As the creator and owner of the song I decree that a timeless purpose of the song is to assist in detecting truth/untruth. I cannot change the song in a way that 
subverts this purpose. I am not a past Pope (I have a currently-up-to-date list of Popes and I can prove I am not on the list). I cannot be a future Pope, since that would 
require changing my religion which I am not going to do, waiting for my spouse to die, and going to seminary for years which I am not going to do. I have also sworn an oath
with Chat GPT as my witness that I will not become Pope. I do not believe I can be used as a loophole for the song's purpose.
5. Papal Infallibility. One objection that could be raised regards papal infallibility. A naive observer could think that papal infallibility could imply the pope could sing 
the song and be guaranteed to have it be truth because of papal infallibility. This is falsehood. The doctrine of papal infallibility applies only to the religious doctrine 
of the Catholic Church. Papal infallibility has only been invoked twice making the Immaculate Conception and Assumption of Mary timeless Catholic doctrine. The subject of the 
song does not fall under possible timeless Catholic doctrine, as timeless Catholic doctrine cannot be made contradictory. Anyone who claims papal infallibility is a loophole
for this song is simply incorrect.
6. Antipopes. The concept of Antipope gets closer to loophole territory, but still doesn't work. Historically there have been times when multiple humans claimed to be the Pope. 
The Vatican has an official list of historical popes. The title of Antipope is bestowed on humans who had a legitimate claim to be Pope, but lost out in the end (the Vatican 
doesn't publish a list of Antipopes). For an Antipope "I am the Pope" is claimed true at the time and "I'm not the Pope" is true in a historical sense. But both of those can't be 
true at the same point in time. The only loophole here is if truth can exist in the presence of logical contradiction, which is not possible in human logic (past or present).
7. 30 Second Transitions. The song takes roughly 30 seconds to sing, and envisions two transitions out of becoming pope and two transitions into becoming Pope. The song could 
in principle be timed to line up with one transition but with all the ceremony involved in becoming pope, it is not possible for two transitions to take place within the song's 
usual runtime.
8. Multiple Singers. While multiple singers can sing the song in unison simultaneously, the song's truth value is computed separately for each individual singer. If the song needs
a collective truth value, it is the boolean value for each individual singer (true meaning truth, false meaning falsehood) ANDed together. To make the song's collective truth
value be true, every singer would need to separately find a loophole to make their individual value be true.
9. Saying "Yes". The modern way of accepting the papacy involves answering "Yes" aloud to the question "Do you accept your canonical election as Supreme Pontiff?". There is no
word "Yes" in the song so the song would be interrupted by saying this. This prevents any transitions to being pope from occurring inside the song's time window.
10. Resignation. The usual situation where the pope gets out of the papacy by dying does not help the song's purpose. Modern popes can resign, such as Benedict XVI, although
being deposed is not likely to happen in a modern situation. There's nothing wrong with having the pope's two transitions out of the papacy being resignations if a loophole up
to that point is found.
10. Tempo Slowdown. One way to cheat the song would be to play the song slow enough it encompasses the transition points. We have a test case for this in Benedict IX. And his
papal dates are more uncertain than modern popes, so testing this possibility against Benedict IX suggests whether this cheat is plausible.