
Hero (Mariah Carey)
Love Story (Taylor Swift)
Sound of Silence (Paul Simon)
One of Us (Joan Osborne)
Awesome God (Rich Mullins)

===

General Childhood

City of New Orleans
Cat's in the Cradle

===

Recovery from Active Shooter Incident (2018). Other people in 2025 won't like mentioning the shooter's name (Anthony Tong).
Rainbow Connection
Wade in the Water
How Far I'll Go (Automated Build)
You're Welcome (Dev God workplan with manager Jess Williamson)
Circle Game (post-shooting sadness)
You are my Sunshine (post-shooting pain)
Music of the Night
Let It Go
Frozen Heart (sorry you didn't make the program)
After the Storm (dedicated to Nathan Herbst)
Mr. Blue Sky

Recovery from Active Shooter Incident (2018) [take two]
Rainbow Connection
Wade in the Water
How Far I'll Go (Automated Build)
You're Welcome (Dev God workplan with manager Jess Williamson or Kristi McCombs)
Phantom of the Opera (remember what you (witness) and the shooter (suicide-by-cop) were both going through)
Circle Game (post-shooting sadness)
You are my Sunshine (post-shooting pain)
Music of the Night
Let it Go
Frozen Heart (sorry you didn't make the program)
After the Storm (dedicated to Nathan Herbst)
Mr. Blue Sky

===

I chose to work on You are my Sunshine after the shooting because I knew Vanessa Johnson found the song emotionally resonant,
not because of any special feeling I had for the song.

===

Mr. Blue Sky helped me recover from the loneliness of Covid and become happy again.

===

Learning to make Parody Songs

Let it Go (all I had to do was switch out the word code with the word cold)
How Far I'll Go (Automated Build)
Complicated (Avril Lavigne)
Rickroll Connection (parody of Rainbow Connection and Never Gonna Give You Up)


The non-parody versions of [Boulevard of Broken Dreams] and [I'm Only Happy When it Rains] can be combined to form personal meaning.

Love Songs (not parodies)
The Rose (love means different things at different times, this is pure)
She's Always a Woman (Billy Joel). I find it hard to believe anyone could feel actual love at that kind of love/hate relationship.
Love Story (Taylor Swift). This is intended as an improvement on the tragedy of Romeo and Juliet.


Anti-Hero (whatever Taylor Swift and others who wrote it actually meant). My guess is it had to do with egotism and self-awareness.

Candle on the Water. People need to be able to give and support one another.
Hero. Sometimes you need a hero, sometimes you can be a hero, sometimes you need to unlock the hero inside yourself.

musicnotes.com versions from the PDFs
Anti-Hero (Taylor Swift)
Awesome God (Rich Mullins)
Boulevard of Broken Dreams (Green Day). Lyrics by Billie Joe Armstrong.
Candle on the Water (Pete's Dragon). Al Kasha and Joel Hirschhorn.
Cat's in the Cradle (Harry Chapin and Sandy Chapin)
City of New Orleans (Steve Goodman)
Complicated (Avril Lavigne). Avril Lavigne/Lauren Christy/David Alspach/Graham Edwards
Hero (Mariah Carey). Walter Afanasieff.
Last Resort (Papa Roach) (Infest). Please contemplate before committing suicide.
Love Story (Taylor Swift)
Never Gonna Give You Up (Rick Astley). Mike Stock, Peter Waterman, Matthew Aitken.
One of Us (Joan Osborne). Eric Bazillian.
Only Happy When It Rains (Garbage) (Steve Marker/Doug Erickson/Butch Vig/Shirley Manson)
Sound of Silence (Paul Simon) (did Art Garfunkel have anything to do with the silence?)

Meaning within Existence
Canticle of the Turning (presumably this means the first time something happens)
Never Gonna Give You Up (going somewhere unexpected after the end of something)
Sound of Silence (spoken communication is not allowed when dealing with time travel manipulation within existence)

Linked Personal Versions
Canticle of the Turning (former choir director's arrangement).

Personal Versions
Canticle of the Turning (mine with input from musicnotes.com and choir director's (Deanna) version
Anti-Hero (Chris Rowe). Trying to make the mentally unhealthy YouTube video (wzCHyiLZ0jg WCP-9501) better.
Candle on the Water. Generically trying to help myself get through my problems (we all have problems)
Last Resort. I have a cool piano part to go along with the rap but I can't play it fast enough (no biggie, not that important)
Love Story. It did turn into a love story with my subconscious (!).

Personal Parody Songs
Rainbow Connection (apophenia) + Rickroll (prank) = Turtles Level of Rickrolls. Moral: Don't click on suspicious links.
Complicated + Upgrader = make an on-the-edge abusive/controlling relationship (both sides) work. Only a Rock Star God could do this on their Local Machine.
One of Us. Gods go through three stages: 1. Live through life as a human on earth. 2. Get more divine help from a team of humans. 3. Turn everyone into something divine. (makes you awesome god)
Only Happy When it Rains:
1. Thought of making a parody song for Only Happy when it Rains linking it to Microsoft Teams which can be glitchy (I'm only happy when it's Microsoft Teams)
2. Thought of making a parody song singing the song outside picking up Fireball Whiskey junk on my daily runs/walks while taking care of my mother who was dying of cancer.