I can see clearly now (1993 Jimmy Cliff version, originally recorded by Johnny Nash, doesn't actually connect to Bob Marley)

I can see clearly now, the rain is gone.
I can see all obstacles in my way.
Gone are the dark clouds that had me blind.
It's gonna be a bright (bright), bright (bright) ['n] sunshine-y day.
It's gonna be a bright (bright), bright (bright) ['n] sunshine-y day.

Oh yes, I can make it now, the pain is gone.
All of the bad feelings have disappeared.
Here is that rainbow I've been prayin' for.

It's gonna be a bright (bright), bright (bright) ['n] sunshine-y day.

Look all around! There's nothing but blue skiiies! (3 i's)
Look straight ahead! There's nothing but blue skiiiiiiiies! (8 i's)

I can see clearly now, the rain is gone.
I can see all obstacles in my way.
Here is that rainbow I've been praying for.

It's gonna be a bright (bright), bright (bright) ['n] sunshine-y day.
It's gonna be a bright (bright), bright (bright) ['n] sunshine-y day.
Rah, rah, rah, rah.
Bright (bright), bright (bright) ['n] sunshine-y day.
Yeah, eh.
It's gonna be a bright (bright) ['n] sunshine-y day.
It's gonna be a bright (bright), bright (bright) ['n] sunshine-y day.
It's gonna be a bright (bright), bright (bright) ['n] sunshine-y day.
Rah, rah, rah, rah, rah.

Meaning: Previously, there has been a period of rain, which prevented the singer from seeing clearly, the dark clouds from
the rain had blinded the singer (probably metaphorical). The singer feels better, without pain and bad feelings. The singer had 
prayed for an end to the rain, and now sees a rainbow. There is nothing but blue skies all around the singer, which seems an odd
observation given the presence of the rainbow (and maybe the sun). The singer knows that it will be a bright sunny day.

Interpreting the song hyperliterally, we can come up with the following plausble explanations:
1. The singer has pain that alleviates with better weather.
2. The singer's mood is dependent on the weather and is happier on bright sunshine-y days.
3. The singer is religious and has prayed for the end of the rain, and sees the rainbow as a sign the divine has ended the rain.
4. The singer sees more clearly in nice weather than rainy weather, as the rain distorts one vision of the air one sees through
5. The rainbow coexists with blue skies all around, and the rainbow isn't important to the rest of the analysis.
6. The sky indicates the day will be sunny (e.g. deep clear blue sky without a haze or milky appearance, suggesting low
moisture in the air and a lack of impending storm systems)
7. "Make it" means being able to do whatever is necessary for whatever event takes place, and the lack of physical pain may make 
this watching easier.
8. Eclipse interpretation (could also work with other astronomical phenomena such as important comets e.g. Halley's)
8a. There is a solar eclipse on the day the song is sung, and the dark clouds would render eclipse viewing useless.
8b. The first total solar eclipse in North America after the song was released was 2017-08-21 in Oregon/Idaho/Wyoming/Nebraska/
Kansas (small northeastern part), Missouri, Illinois, Kentucky, Tennessee, Georgia (small northwestern corner), North Carolina,
South Carolina (I don't have detailed weather information that might validate or refute this theory). The first partial
solar eclipse visible in America after the song's release was 1998-02-26.
8d. The rainbow is a potential obstacle to seeing the eclipse, but the singer knows it will clear. This isn't a perfect answer
since "obstacles" is plural.
9. Astrological interpretation
9a. The singer needs to be able to see the sun, or moon, or comet, or other relevant astronomical objects to make 
astrological predictions (and is blind otherwise for those predictions).
9b. Whatever the obstacles are that could thwart the singer's astrological predictions is in plain view.
9c. Bad feelings could refer to extra-sensory information relevant to the astrological predictions
10. Sense of time interpretation
10a. The singer's timekeeping method depends on seeing the sun, and if the singer has lost their sense of time that render the
singer blind. This seems a nonworkable literal interpretation since the sense of time isn't obviously related to the sense of 
sight, but if we relax the literalness restriction we could treat "see" more liberally and perhaps get a somewhat coherent
interpretation.