How Far I'll Go (Mo'ana)
Music and Lyrics by Lin-Manual Miranda

I've been staring at the edge of the water, long as I can remember, never really knowing why.
I wish I could be the perfect daughter, but I come back to the water, no matter how hard I try.
Ev'ry turn I take, ev'ry trail I track, ev'ry path I make, ev'ry road leads back,
to the place I know where I cannot go, where I long to be.

See the line where the sky meets the sea, it calls me!
But no one knows how far it goes.
If the wind in my sail on the sea stays behind me, one day I'll know, if I go there's just no telling how far I'll go.

I know everybody on this island seems so happy on this island, everything is by design.
I know everybody on this island has a role on this island, so maybe I can roll with mine.
I can lead with pride, I can make us strong, I'll be satisfied if I play along, but the voice inside sings a different song.
What is wrong with me?

See the light as it shines on the sea, it's blinding! But no one knows how deep it goes,
and it seems like it's calling out to me so come find me, and let me know, what's beyond that line, will I cross that line?

The line where the sky meets the sea, it calls me!
And no one knows how far it goes!
If the wind in my sail on the sea stays behind me, one day I'll know, how far I'll go!

Meaning (see YouTube video 5ijfLtT9Qjc which is a personal parody of this song):

The beach is a special place for Moana, and she's spent much time over the years looking out at the distant,
potentially endless horizon, purpose unclear. Moana wishes she could meet her parents' aspirations to become chief of the tribe, 
and maybe she could go along with the plan and be competent at that, but at the core that's not who she is.
No matter what Moana does, her focus eventually shifts away from the village, feeling called toward the vast mysterious ocean.
The island society is governed by rules, and while most seem happy with their station, Moana does not,
particularly the rule forbidding ocean exploration. Maybe her desire for adventure (and the voices in her head feeding that) 
means something is wrong with her? Moana has wishful thinking the listener could figure it out and send her some clue 
about what's out there. Someday, if Moana keeps working at it, she will find out what's out there, traverse the great beyond, 
and fulfill her destiny.