Let it Go (Frozen)

The snow glows white in the mountains tonight, not a footprint to be seen.
A kingdom of isolation, and it looks like I'm the queen.
The wind is howling like this swirling storm inside.
Couldn't keep it in, heaven knows I tried.
Don't let them in, don't let them see, be the good girl you always have to be.
Conceal, don't feel, don't let them know. Well, now they know.

Let it go, let it go.
Can't hold it back anymore.
Let it go, let it go.
Turn away and slam the door.
I don't care what they're gonna say.
Let the storm rage on.
The cold never bothered me anyway.

It's funny how some distance makes everything seem small,
and the fears that once controlled me can't get to me at all.
It's time to see what I can do, to test the limits and break through.
No right, no wrong, no rules for me.
I'm free.

Let it go, let it go.
I am one with the wind and sky.
Let it go, let it go.
You'll never see me cry.
Here I stand, and here I'll stay.
Let the storm rage on.

My power flurries through the air into the ground.
My soul is spiraling in frozen fractals all around.
And one thought crystallizes like an icy blast.
I'm never going back, the past is in the past.

Let it go, let it go.
And I'll rise like the break of dawn.
Let it go, let it go.
That perfect girl is gone.
Here I stand, in the light of day.
Let the storm rage on.
The cold never bothered me anyway.

Meaning Analysis (YouTube video eymtTwRoFFU)

The phrase "Let it Go" can mean releasing something previously constrained or moving on from something as a break from the past, 
both implicated in the meaning of the song. In the movie Elsa is presented as a reserved character with an emotionally flat affect. 
In this song, Elsa is the opposite of this, expressing herself emitting a ton of angry emotional energy. 
There is no change in her isolation (moved from the castle to the wilderness). The song marks a transition 
where her ice superpowers are now publicly known. The combination of emotional release and previously concealed break from the past 
lends itself to a personal song interpretation of a coming-out party of any type, where a previously hidden and possibly 
controversial trait is now expressed openly (e.g. revealing one's homosexuality publicly even if others disapprove), 
although the underlying person does not truly change. This is not accidental on the part of the songwriters.
And the movie is similar. Elsa comes out with respect to her ice powers, but her emotionally flat affect does not change, 
and she remains someone who publicly does not show a lot of emotion. Elsa is alone for this song (not a footprint to be seen 
in the snow). She gives a command for others to go away (Turn away and slam the door). The wilderness location is where 
she'll stand and stay at home with the wind and sky. It's crystal clear to her she's never going back (throws away her crown). 
No one in the story sees the song. Elsa has spent her life isolated with the expectation of being a good girl preparing to be the 
queen of the kingdom with her ice powers hidden. She's concealed her powers and emotions (don't feel) with significant effort 
(heaven knows she tried). This has led to a lot of pent-up internal emotional energy (swirling storm inside) which reached a
breaking point and couldn't be kept in anymore, and the ice powers flurried out. The song is primarily an angry song, although 
it also covers other emotions impacted by the presence of others: fear (previously controlling but not felt alone) and sadness
(you'll never see me cry, although not shown here as this is not a sad song). With restraints lifted, she is free to do things 
and push boundaries she couldn't do before. She doesn't care what others will say (which could be good or bad).
Perhaps the indicator of amorality (no right, no wrong) and self-exemption of the rules is concerning (notwithstanding my bias 
against the rules). But she's alone so that limits the damage she can do and Elsa is presented as a bottom line good person.
Elsa emerges changed, rising like the break of dawn, with the perfect girl she was gone. The storm rages on, when she's 
alone she can show it raging on, when she's with others perhaps it still rages on inside. But having her ice powers out is 
emotionally healthy, as the frozen fractals are part of her soul, so she is better off. Elsa doesn't remain alone in the 
wilderness forever, she is persuaded to rejoin and take her place in society (in the movie post-song).

I think the psychological concept here is emotional release.
Engaging in creative activities like singing songs (or making YouTube videos) can allow for expressing and processing 
difficult emotions such as anger/sadness. That's helpful even if only possible alone. But in Frozen the movie viewers 
get to see it through the fourth wall, and I guess in my case whoever's not watching my videos can too.