Under the Sea (Little Mermaid)

The seaweed is always greener in somebody else's lake.
You dream about going up there, but that is a big mistake.
Just look at the world around you, right here on the ocean floor.
Such wonderful things surround you, what more is you lookin' for?

Under the sea! Under the sea!

Darlin', it's better down where it's wetter, take if from me!
Up on the shore, they work all day, out in the sun they slave away.
While we devotin' full time to floatin' under the sea.

Down here all the fish is happy, as off through the waves they roll.
The fish on the land ain't happy, they sad 'cause they in the bowl.
But fish in the bowl is lucky, they in for a worser fate.
One day when the boss get hungry, guess who's gonna be on the plate?

Under the sea! Under the sea!

Nobody beat us, fry us, and eat us in fricassee.
We what the land folks loves to cook.
Under the sea, we off the hook.
We got no troubles! Life is the bubbles!

Under the sea! Under the sea!

Since life is sweet here, we got the beat here naturally!
Even the sturgeon and the ray, they gots the urge to start 'n play!
We got the spirit, you got to hear it! Under the sea!

The newt play the flute.
The carp play the harp.
The plaice play the bass, and they soundin' sharp.
The bass play the brass.
The chub play the tub.
The fluke is the duke of soul.
The ray he can play.
The lings on the strings.
The trout rockin' out.
The blackfish, she sings.
The smelt and the sprat, they know where it's at.
And, oh, that blowfish blow!

Under the sea! Under the sea!

When the sardine begin the beguine, it's music to me.
What do they got, a lot of sand?
We got a hot crustacean band.
Each little clam here know how to jam here, under the sea.
Each little slug here, cuttin' a rug here, under the sea.
Each little snail here know how to wail here,
That's why it's hotter, under the water.
Ya, we in luck here, down in the much here.

Under the sea!

Meaning:

Sebastian the Crab tries to convince Ariel the mermaid that life will be better for her under the sea. It is true that
sea creatures are generally suited for the sea environment. However, a mermaid is better off on the land if she can
grow legs, which is what eventually happens in the movie.