You're Welcome (Mo'ana)

I see what's happenin' yeah.
You're face-to-face with greatness and it's strange.
You don't even know how you feel (it's adorable!).
Well, it's nice to see that humans never change.

Open your eyes, let's begin.
Yes, it's really me, it's Maui, breathe it in.
I know it's alot, the hair, the bod,
when you're starin' at a demi-god.

What can I say, except, "You're Welcome"!
For the tides, the sun, the sky.
Hey, it's okay, it's okay, you're welcome.
I'm just an ordinary demi-guy.

Hey, what has two thumbs that pulled up the sky
when you were waddling yea high? This guy!
When the night got cold, who stole you fire from down below?
You're looking at him, yo, yo, yo!

Also, I lassoed the sun (you're welcome!).
To stretch the days and bring you fun.
Also, I harnessed the breeze (you're welcome!).
To fill your sails and shake your trees.

So what can I say, except, "You're Welcome"!
For the islands I pulled from the sea.
There's no need to pray, it's okay, you're welcome! (Huh!)
I guess it's just my way of being me!
You're welcome! You're welcome!

Kid, honestly, I can go on and on.
I can explain ev'ry natural phenomenon.
The tide, the grass, the ground.
Oh, that was just Maui, messin' around.
I killed an eel, I buried its guts.
Sprouted a tree, now you got coconuts.
What's the lesson? What's the take-a-way?
Don't mess with Maui when he's on the break-a-way.

And the tapestry here on my skin.
Is a map of the vic'tries I win.
Look where I've been, I make everything happen.
Look at that mean mini Maui, tippity, tappin, tappin, tappin, tappin.

Well, anyway, let me say "You're Welcome!" (You're welcome!)
For the wonderful world you know.
Hey, it's okay, it's okay, you're welcome. (You're welcome!)
Well, come to think of it, I gotta go.

Hey it's your day to say you're welcome (You're welcome)
For the wonderful world you know.
Hey, it's okay, it's okay, you're welcome (you're welcome)
Well, come to think of it, I gotta go.

Hey it's your day to say you're welcome (You're welcome)
'Cause I'm gonna need that boat.
I'm sailing away, away, you're welcome (You're welcome)
'Cause Maui can do anything but float.
You're welcome. You're welcome. You're welcome. You're welcome!

Meaning:

This song introduces the character Maui, a demi-god who is full of himself.
The Rock, who sings the song, also has a persona full of himself.
He describes his mythological responsibilities to the humans, with the implication the humans should be thankful for what
the gods have created. This song introduces Moana to Maui, and Maui takes no responsibility for stealing the Heart of the Island,
and uses the song as a device to trap Moana in a cave, stealing a boat, which leads the story towards its next chapter.