I take the position that the first place religion on Earth is "Abrahamic" based on the shared traditions of Christianity and Islam. This also pulls in Judaism and Samaritanism. So if you need to reboot the Earth, that could be done by placing the common Abrahamic elements in the timeless, allowing the religions to use that as the starting point. Christianity and Islam currently interpret the shared tradition differently.

Christianity interprets it in the light of original sin doctrine and Jesus Christ's redemption of humanity. Christianity's doctrine of original sin (Adam's sin taints all of humanity) is curious as it was not taught by Jesus Christ, and instead developed over time, with Augustine of Hippo (354-430 CE) being the important figure, with Pelagianism (moral responsibility and self-discipline allow humans to obey God's law by free will alone) losing out. I submit that Christianity and Islam develop their traditions regardless of the starting point in the timeless, so those details can be filled in appropriately as those religions develop.

Islam interprets it in light of Muhammed as the final prophet with a focus on submission to God (sometimes making this point clearer via taking out symbolic elements and removing morally ambiguous behavior of prophets.

Some of the morally ambiguous behavior are petty grievances against tribes competitive with the Israelites. I wonder if this causes issues.
1. Noah's cursing of Ham's son Canaan after Ham spreads news of Noah's behavior
2. Lot's daughters repopulating Moabite/Ammonite tribes using incest

My assumption is cataclysms need rework or have room for rework in light of the current age (or the age to come after the current age). Noah's flood is a world-wide cataclysm and I think that makes sense as a requirement of the world-building process. The story of Lot is a more local cataclysm, but seems like rework would be helpful. The Sodom story is problematic for the modern age because it's easily interpreted as judgment against homosexuality (I think humanity can kick any homosexuality-is-immoral remnants out of the timeless, but maybe it's better not to put it there in the first place.). 

The Lot's daughters' thing also seems like an odd way to repopulate after a cataclysm. I think we could use less moral ambiguity in the cataclysms, and 

---

I identify eight (8) figures/stories to use

---

Adam/Eve (Creation Story)

In the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth. From clay or dust, God formed the first human, Adam, and breathed into him the breath of life. God placed Adam in a garden of paradise, where he was given a place of peace, purpose, and provision.

To keep Adam company, God created Eve, the first woman, from his side or from the same essence. Together, they were given responsibilities in the garden and were allowed to enjoy its blessings—with one exception: they were forbidden to approach the Tree of Knowledge of Good and Evil.

Tempted by Satan in the form of a snake, they both disobeyed God and ate from the tree. As a result, they became aware of their nakedness and felt shame. God called them to account and reminded them of the consequences of their actions.

They were then sent out of the garden to live on earth, where they would face labor, struggle, and mortality. However, God also provided them with guidance, clothing, and the chance to seek forgiveness and return to His favor through righteousness.

---

Enoch

Enoch was a righteous man and a descendant of Adam. He walked faithfully with God and was taken up by God, so that he did not experience an ordinary death.

---

Noah

As humanity became increasingly corrupt and violent, God chose Noah, a righteous man, to build an ark and preserve life through a coming flood. Noah obeyed and brought his family and pairs of animals aboard. The rains fell, and the waters covered the earth, but God remembered Noah and caused the waters to recede.

During the wait for dry land, Noah released a raven, then a dove. The dove returned with an olive leaf, and later did not return at all, signaling the earth was drying. When the flood ended, Noah offered prayers and sacrifices of gratitude.

God then made a covenant with Noah and all living things, promising never to destroy the earth by flood again. As a sign of this everlasting promise, God placed a rainbow in the sky.

---

Lot

Lot was a righteous man who lived in the city of Sodom amidst widespread corruption and immoral behavior. A second city was Gomorrah, and also Admah and Zeboiim. God sent messengers to warn Lot of impending destruction. He was told to leave the city with his family and not to look back. As God's punishment came upon the city, Lot and some of his family escaped. His wife, however, looked back and was turned into a pillar of salt. The city was destroyed, but Lot was saved because of his righteousness.

Lot went to Zoar but was afraid to stay there. He settled in a cave in the hills with his two daughters. Lot's daughter's believed that world had been destroyed, got Lot drunk, and became pregnant, spawning the Moabite and Annonite tribes.
