Carrot Juice is Murder (Arrogant Worms)

Listen up brothers and sisters,
Come hear my desperate tale.
I speak of our friends of nature,
Trapped in the dirt like a jail.

Vegetables live in oppression,
Served on our tables each night.
This killing of veggies is madness.
I say we take up the fight.

Salads are only for murderers.
Coleslaw's a fascist regime.
Don't think that they don't have feelings,
Just 'cause a radish can't scream.

I've heard the screams of the vegetables (scream, scream, scream)
Watching their skins being peeled (having their insides revealed)
Grated and steamed with no mercy (burning up calories)
How do you think that feels? (bet it hurts really bad)
Carrot juice constitutes murder (and that's a real crime)
Greenhouses prisons for slaves (let my vegetables go)
It's time to stop all this gardening (it's dirty as hell)
Let's call a spade a spade (is a spade, is a spade, is a spade, is a spade)

I saw a man eating celery,
So I beat him black and blue.
If he ever touches a sprout again,
I'll bite him clean in two.

I'm a political prisoner,
Trapped in a windowless cage,
'Cause I stopped the slaughter of turnips
By killing five men in a rage.

I told the judge when he sentenced me,
"This is my finest hour.
I'd kill those farmers again,
Just to save one more cauliflower".

How low as people do we dare to stoop,
making young broccolis bleed in the soup?
Untie your beans! Uncage your tomatoes!
Let potted plants free! Don't mash those potatoes!

I've heard the screams of the vegetables (scream, scream, scream)
Watching their skins being peeled (fates in the stirfry are sealed)
Grated and steamed with no mercy (you fat gourmet slob)
How do you think that feels? (leave them out in the field)
Carrot juice constitutes murder (V8's genocide)
Greenhouses prisons for slaves (yes, your composts are graves)
It's time to stop all this gardening (take up macrame)
Let's call a spade a spade (is a spade, is a spade, is a spade, is a spade...)

Meaning:
Kids stereotypically don't like to eat their vegetables, and their caretakers may have to do work to get the vegetables eaten.
This song gives a funny explanation for why kids shouldn't eat their vegetables, giving an over-the-top rational that eating
vegetables is equivalent to murder even though vegetables are not alive or sentient.
