The Last Saskatchewan Pirate (Arrogant Worms)

Refrain:
And it's a heave-ho, hi-ho, comin' down the plains,
Stealin' wheat and barley, and all the other grains.
It's a ho-hey, hi-hey, farmers bar yer doors,
When ya see the Jolly Roger on Regina's mighty shores.

(Start Song)

I used to be a farmer, and I made a living fine.
I had a little stretch of land along the CP line,
But times were hard and though I tried, the money wasn't there,
And the bankers cam and took my land and told me "fair is fair".

I looked for ev'ry kind of job, the answer always no.
"Hire you now?", they'd always laugh, "We just let twenty go!"
The government, they promised me a measly little sum,
But I've got too much pride to end up just another bum.

Then I thought, "Who gives a damn if all the jobs are gone?
I'm gonna be a pirate on the river Saskatchewan!"

[Refrain]

Well, you'd think the local farmers would know that I'm at-large,
But just the other day I found an unprotected barge.
I snuck up right behind them, and they was none the wiser,
I rammed their ship and sank it and I stole their fertilizer!

A bridge outside of Moose Jaw spans a mighty river.
Farmers cross in so much fear, their stomachs are a-quiver.
'Cause they know that Tractor Jack is hidin' in the bay.
I'll jump the bridge and knock them cold and sail off with their hay!

[Refrain]

Well, Mountie Bob, he chased me, he was always at my throat.
He followed on the shoreline, 'cause he didn't own a boat,
But cutbacks were a-comin' and the Mountie lost his job.
So now he's sailin' with us, and we call him Salty Bob!

A swingin' sword, a skull and bones, and pleasant company.
I never pay my income tax and screw the GST! (Screw it!)
Sailin' down to Saskatoon, the terror of the seas.
If you wannna reach the co-op, boys, you gotta get by me!

[Refrain]

Well, pirate life's appealing, but you don't just find it here.
I hear in North Alberta, there's a band of buccaneers.
They roam the Athabaska from Smith to Fort McKay,
And you're gonna lose your Stetson if you have to pass that way!

Well, winter is a-comin' and a chill is in the breeze.
My pirate days are over once the river starts to freeze,
But I'll be back in spring-time, but now I have to go.
I hear there's lots a-plunderin' down in New Mexico!

[Refrain]

[repeat last line slower] When ya see tha Jolly Roger on Regina's mighty shores [pirate laugh]

(End Song)

Meaning: As the world's technology has grown, farming has gotten more at-scale (in developed countries), making small farms less profitable.
This means smaller farms sell their resources to larger farms or go out-of-business entirely. This song satirizes what a farmer might do
afterwards, becoming a pirate, and then ironically making farming more difficult and accelerating small farming's demise. This song also
makes many references to the Canadian province of Saskatchewan, anchoring the tall tale in real-world Canadian and Saskatchewan references,
which makes the story more real to the listener to make the song funnier.