Music of the Night (Phantom of the Opera)
Music by Andrew Lloyd Webber
Lyrics by Charles Hart
Additional Lyrics by Richard Stilgoe

Night time sharpens, heightens each sensation.
Darkness stirs and wakes imagination.
Silently, the senses abandon their defenses.

Slowly, gently, night unfurls its splendor.
Grasp it, sense it, temulous and tender.
Turn your face away from the garish light of day.
Turn your thoughts away from cold unfeeling light,
And listen to the music of the night.

Close your eyes, and surrender to your darkest dreams.
Purge your thoughts of the life you knew before.
Close your eyes, let your spirit start to soar,
And you'll live as you'e never lived before.

Softly, deftly, music shall caress you.
Hear it, feel it, secretly possess you.
Open up your mind, let your fantasies unwind,
In this darkness which you know you cannot fight:
The darkness of the music of the night.

Let your mind start a journey to a strange new world.
Leave all thoughts of the world you knew before.
Let your soul take you where you long to be.
Only then can you belong to me.

Floating, falling, sweet intoxication.
Touch me, trust me, savor each sensation.
Let the dream begin, let your darker side give in,
To the power of the music that I write:
The power of the music of the night.

You alone can make my song take flight.
Help me make the music of the night...

Meaning:
The song is sung by the Phantom to Christine after the Phandom has abducted her and taken her to hidden. He uses
this song in a seductive attempt to enchant her.

The lyrics present the following ideas:
1. Darkness overtaking light as part of the transition from daytime to nighttime.
2. Creatures of the night become more powerful as darkness falls, for example seeing better in the dark.
3. Humans are not creatures of the night, so their senses become less powerful with the darkness.

Within the context of the song, they present the following ideas:
1. The Phantom wants Christine to transition from a daytime entity to a nighttime entity, a very different life.
2. Becoming a nighttime entity will be a powerful raising of her spirit, but she will have to let go of some human aspects/senses.
3. Her vision will get worse, but her listening will get better.
4. Listening to the Phantom's intoxicating, enchanting music will help this process.
5. It will help the process if she gives in to the temptation.
6. Once the transition is complete, Christine will be able to help the Phantom work on his music: this is her inevitable destiny.
7. Phantom asks for her help in making this reality.