The Phantom of the Opera (from the musical with the same name)
Music by Andrew Lloyd Webber
Lyrics by Charles Hart
Additional lyrics by Richard Stilgoe and Mike Batt

Christine:
In sleep he sang to me, in dreams he came, that voice which calls to me, and speaks my name.
And do I dream again? for now I find the phantom of the opera is there, inside my mind.

Phantom:
Sing once again with me, our strange duet; my power over you grows stronger yet.
And though you turn from me, to glance behind, the phantom of the opera is there, inside your mind.

Christine:
Those who have seen your face draw back in fear. I am the mask you wear.

Phantom:
It's me they hear.

Christine: Your spirit and my voice in one combined; the phantom of the opera is there, inside my mind.
Phantom: My spirit and your voice in cone combined; the phantom of the opera is there, inside your mind.

Voices:
He's there, the phantom of the opera!
Beware the phantom of the opera!

Phantom:
In all your fantasies, you always knew that man and mystery were both in you.

Phantom+Christine:
And in this labyrinth where night is blind,

Christine: The phantom of the opera is here, inside my mind.
Phantom: The phantom of the opera is there, inside your mind.

Phantom (spoken): Sing, my angel of music!

Christine:
He's there, the phantom of the opera!
Ah!

Phantom (Spoken): Sing for me!

Christine: Ah! Ah!

Phantom (spoken): Sing, my angel of music!

Christine: Ah! Ah! Ah! Ah!

Meaning: In the musical, Christine has become the lead soprano in the opera house, seemingly caused by the Phantom. In this
song, the Phantom reveals himself to Christine, and she begins her journey into phantom's domain. The song is a duet, with
Christine's voice soaring and the Phantom's voice hypnotic.

Christine first saw the Phantom in a dream, but now she sees him for real in her mind. The Phantom confirms he is now
really in her mind, starting to be under his control and acknowledges she is afraid. Christine's singing combines with the
Phantom's spirit to make a powerful combination. Christine's face contrasts with the Phantom's mask, so through her the Phantom
can project his vision to others. The two souls inhabit a dark maze, where the Phantom has control over Christine and makes
her sing beautifully and powerfully for the Phantom's interests, which Christine seems to be okay with.