The Rose

Some say love: it is a river that drowns the tender reed.
Some say love: it is a razor that leaves your soul to bleed.
Some say love: it is a hunger, an endless aching need.
I say love: it is a flower, and you, it's only seed.

It's the heart, afraid of breaking, that never learns to dance.
It's the dream, afraid of waking, that never takes the chance.
It's the one, who won't be taken, who cannot seem to give.
And the soul, afraid of dying, that never learns to live.

When the night has been too lonely, and the road has been too long,
And you think that love is only for the lucky and the strong.
Just remember in the winter, far beneath the bitter snows,
Lies the seed that with the sun's love, in the spring, becomes the rose.

Meaning:

The song discusses metaphors for the emotion love, with the first verse discussing four interpretations. People 
can experience love differently for different stages of their life and for different people. One can be overwhelmed (drowned) 
by love (e.g. experiencing something or the first time). Love can be painful or be associated with painful memories such 
as a relationship that went south. Love can be something people desperately want and can never get enough of. But the 
metaphor the singer prefers is as something that grows within oneself.

The second verse discusses roadblocks on the road to feeling love. One might avoid forming relationships because
one fears the consequences of breaking up, but that would prevent feeling the enjoyment of dancing with a partner. One
might avoid trying to make one's dreams come true for fear of failure, but would also prevent any possibility of success.
If one cannot handle the interplay of give and take in a relationship, one's relationships won't be successful. And 
ultimately the fear of dying can be so strong that it impedes the ability to live one's life.

The third verse cements the metaphor of love as a seed. The road to love can be a long, lonely one, and sometimes it might
feel as if one must be lucky or strong to achieve it. However, even when things are the worst (such as winter for a seed under
the snow), eventually it will be spring and the seed can become a blooming rose. And where love is concerned, how we behave
when we're not feeling the love, can make us ready to feel love more effectively at some later time.