The Sign (Ace of Bass)
Released (Europe): 1993-11-01
Released (USA): 1993-12-14

[presumably Swedish or guttural shout] Oh, yeah!

[Background] Ah
I got a new life,
You'll hardly recognize me, I'm so glad.
How could a person like me jump [lyrics say "care" but sounds like "jump"] for you?
Why do I bother, when you're not the one for me?

[Background] ooh ooh ooh ooh ooh.
Is enough, enough?
I saw the sign, and it opened up my eyes, I saw the sign,
Life is demanding, without understanding.
I saw the sign, and it opened up my eyes, I saw the sign,
No one's gonna drag you up to get into the light where you belong.
But where do you belong?

[Background] Ah
Under the pale moon,
For so many years I've wondered who you are.
How could a person like you bring me joy?
Under the pale moon, where I see a lot of stars

[Background] ooh ooh ooh ooh ooh.
Is enough, enough?
I saw the sign, and it opened up my eyes, I saw the sign,
Life is demanding, without understanding.
I saw the sign, and it opened up my eyes, I saw the sign.
No one's gonna drag you up to get into the light where you belong.
But where do you belong?
Oh oh oh

I saw the sign, and it opened up my mind,
And I am happy now livin' without you.
I've left you, Oh. Oh oh oh.

I saw the sign, and it opened up my eyes, I saw the sign.
No one's gonna drag you up to get into the light where you belong.
[Background] I saw the sign, I saw the sigh-e-igh  [Foreground]I saw the sign.
[Background] I saw the sign, I saw the sigh-e-igh-e-ign
[Background] I saw the sign, I saw the sign. [Foreground]I saw the sign.
And it opened up my eyes,
I saw the sign.

Meaning: The female singer has been in a long term relationship with the listener. The singer got joy out the 
relationship, although she didn't fully understand why. The singer's understanding of the relationship has changed, and now
it doesn't make sense to the singer why she entered the relationship or possibly ever cared for the listener at all.

Why have things changed? The singer repeatedly expresses she saw the sign, some kind of vision that opened the singer's eyes
to new possibilities. And that caused a cascading reaction where it opened the singer's mind to the realization that the
relationship is not right for her. And she has cut the ties of the relationship (presumably abruptly) and is much happier now,
and indeed says she is hardly recognizable from her former self. 

It's unclear what the sign actually was, although the reference to the pale moon and stars suggests it might have been something 
trivial, like a falling star. But even trivial things can start complex cascades of consequences. Or the sign could have been
something that defies human explanation and thus can only be discussed abstractly.

The song itself is a break-up message explaining what happened to the listener for closure. There are indications the singer
is trying to be helpful. The line "life is demanding, without understanding" suggests the idea that understanding on both sides
makes the relationship-ending-awkwardly situation less difficult. "No one's gonna drag you up to get into the light where
you belong" suggests the idea that the singer has done work to put her in a better place, and maybe the listener needs to do
something similar on the other end. And the question is posed "Where do you belong?" as a question for the listener to make
their own way of navigating out of the failed relationship.

The "care" vs "jump" lyric is significant (the official lyric says "care" but sounds like "jump"). "Jump" indicates the singer went 
into the relationship without full understanding and doesn't necessarily reflect badly on the listener. "Care" is more harsh, it
indicates the singer doesn't consider the listener worth enough to care for. Which one makes more sense depends on real-world context.

"Is enough, enough?" is a play on the common expression "Enough is enough?" and represents the process the singer when through to
determine whether the relationship was worth continuing, eventually answered in the affirmative.